About 500,000 participants were included in the UK Biobank. Of 498,103 participants included (54% of whom were women) aged 37-73 years, 8532 died during a median follow-up of 4.9 years (IQR 4.33-5.22) Self-reported health (C-index including age 0.74 [95% CI 0.73-0.75]) was the strongest predictor of all-cause mortality in men and a previous cancer diagnosis (0.73 [0.72-0,74] for women) When excluding individuals with major diseases or disorders (Charlson comorbidity index >0; n=355 043), measures of smoking habits were

UK Biobank is the largest retinal data repository in a prospective population-based cohort. Images were drawn from those of 68,554 participants who underwent retinal imaging at recruitment. Increasing age was associated with a reduced proportion of images that could be processed.

Common variants near the apolipoprotein E and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit alpha 5 genes are associated with lifespan. The effects are strongly sex and age dependent, with APOE &#603;4 differentially influencing maternal lifespan. Rare homozygous carriers of the risk alleles at both loci are predicted to have 3.3-3.7 years shorter lives.

Verbal reasoning performance is an indicator of the ability to think constructively in everyday life. This study aimed to determine the effect of functional hearing on verbal reasoning when controlling for age, gender, and education.

Low fat-free mass (FFM) is a risk factor for morbidity and mortality in elderly and patient populations. FFM and FFMI were significantly associated with BMI and decreased with age. Because these reference values are BMI specific, they are of broad interest for overweight and obese populations.

A one kilogram increase in birthweight was associated with a lower risk of type 2 diabetes in the UK Biobank participants. Paternal diabetes was associated. with lower birthweight (45 g lower; 95% CI: 36, 54; P = 2 × 10(-23) relative to individuals with no parental diabetes. Maternal diabetes is associated with higher birthweight. Findings with paternal diabetes are consistent with a role for the same genetic factors influencing foetal growth.

In this cross-sectional analysis of the UK Biobank cohort, a history of fracture was associated with increased risk of current widespread chronic pain. Individuals with prior fracture were significantly more likely to report CWBP than those without.

Several studies have shown that smoking may confer a greater excess risk for chronic diseases in women compared with men. The reasons for this excess risk of smoking in women are unclear, yet sex differences in smoking habits may play a role. In the oldest cohort, born 1935-1939, women started smoking 1.9 years (95% CI 1.7 to 2.1) later than did men.

Cross-sectional study using baseline data from the unique UK Biobank resource. Participants with and without RA were compared in terms of sociodemographic, lifestyle and other disease-related risk factors. Prevalence was significantly higher among female, South Asian and socioeconomically deprived participants.

Study examines relationship with self-reported health (SRH) and happiness. Compared with obese men, obese women are less likely to report poor health, but more likely to feel unhappy.

Previous studies on the association between adiposity and mood disorder have produced contradictory results. Few have used measurements other than body mass index (BMI) We examined association between probable major depression and several measurements of adiposity: BMI, waist circumference and waist-hip-ratio.

The UK Biobank offers cross-sectional epidemiological data collected on >500,000 individuals in the UK between 40 and 70 years of age. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of functional hearing loss and hearing aid usage on visuospatial memory function. Age also showed strong main effects for both memory tasks.

Visuospatial working memory (VSWM) has been shown to be poorer in individuals with poorer hearing but better in profoundly deaf individuals. Using data from the UK Biobank resource, a large observational study, we showed that variance in card-pair matching was large among profoundly deaf participants.

Study investigated differences in cognitive performance between middle-aged adults with and without a lifetime history of mood disorder features. Cross-sectional analysis of baseline data from the UK Biobank cohort.

Low birth weight has been inconsistently associated with risk of developing affective disorders, including major depressive disorder (MDD) To date, studies investigating possible associations between birth weight and bipolar disorder (BD) have not been conducted in large cohorts. Very low/low birth weight were associated with higher neuroticism scores.

UK Biobank is a landmark cohort of over 500,000 participants. This is the first study to systematically assess the prevalence and validity of proposed criteria for probable mood disorders.

Cardiometabolic diseases (hypertension, coronary artery disease [CAD] and diabetes) are known to associate with poorer cognitive ability. There are limited data on whether having more than one of these conditions is associated with additive effects. We examined cognitive test scores in domains of reasoning, information processing speed and memory.

There was a weak correlation (r = 0.24) between energy from sugar and fat. The proportion of energy from fat in the diet, but not sugar, is higher among overweight/obese individuals. Focusing public health messages on sugar may mislead on the need to reduce fat and overall energy consumption.

UK Biobank includes 502,649 middle- and older-aged adults. Majority of participants completed tests of cognitive functioning. A sub-group of N = 20,346 participants repeated most of the assessment.

Insufficient physical activity is a determinant of obesity and cardiovascular disease. Active travel to work has declined in high-income countries in recent decades. We aimed to determine which characteristics predicted switching to or from active commuting.

Physical inactivity is a leading cause of obesity and premature mortality. We aimed to examine the relation between active commuting and obesity in mid-life using objectively measured anthropometric data from UK Biobank.

Study looked at 212,039 men aged 40-69 years in UK Biobank. A total of 62,022 (29%) men reported they had ever had a PSA test. A wide range of factors was associated with a higher likelihood of PSA testing. These included age, height, education level, family history of prostate cancer.

Study examined associations of sleep duration and morning-evening type with sociodemographic and cardiometabolic disease in adults participating in the UK Biobank study. Black ethnicity emerged as most strongly associated with sleep behavior.

Sleep duration has been implicated in the etiology of obesity but less is known about the association between sleep and other behavioral risk factors for cardiovascular disease. The aim of this study was to examine associations among sleep duration, chronotype, and physical activity, screen-based sedentary behavior, tobacco use, and dietary intake.

Sleep duration and morningness/eveningness (circadian preference) have separately been associated with cardiovascular risk factors. Interactive effects are plausible, resulting from combinations of sleep homeostatic and circadian influences. These have not been examined in a population sample.

Of the many common variants now associated with body mass index, those in an intron of the fat mass and obesity-associated (FTO) gene have the largest effect. We jointly examine the evidence for interactions between FTO (rs1421085) and various lifestyle and environmental factors.

Recent epidemiological data suggest the relation between hearing difficulty and depression is more evident in younger and middle-aged populations than in older adults. There are also suggestions that the relation may be more apparent in specific subgroups. Findings suggest that audiological services should facilitate psychosocial counselling.

Mark Caulfield, Paul Elliott and colleagues use data from the UK Biobank to perform genome-wide association analysis for blood pressure traits. They identify and validate 107 novel loci.

Jimmy Liu and colleagues perform genome-wide association by proxy (GWAX) in a large population cohort. They apply GWAX to 12 common diseases and show its utility by identifying new risk loci.

 genome-wide association study in 293,723 individuals identifies 74 genetic variants associated with educational attainment. Although only explaining a small proportion of the variation in educational attainment, highlights candidate genes.

A meta-analysis of subjective well-being, depressive symptoms and neuroticism. The study leverages a large sample size together with genetic correlations between the phenotypes to identify loci associated with each phenotype.

Researchers find 15 new significant loci and implicate 40 new genes, most of which are predominantly expressed in the brain. Danielle Posthuma and colleagues determine genetic overlap with several neuropsychiatric and metabolic traits.

Steven Gazal, Alkes Price and colleagues extend stratified LD score regression to continuous annotations. They analyze summary statistics from 56 complex diseases and traits. SNPs with low levels of linkage disequilibrium have larger per-SNP heritability.

 Variability in red blood cell volumes (distribution width, RDW) increases with age. RDW is strongly predictive of mortality, incident coronary heart disease and cancer. We investigated inherited genetic variation associated with RDW in 116,666 UK Biobank human volunteers.

A genetic risk score derived from these results was significantly associated with risk for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in independent populations. Louise Wain, Ian Hall, Martin Tobin and colleagues report genome-wide association analyses of lung function.

Our sleep timing preference is a manifestation of our internal biological clock. Variation in chronotype has been linked to sleep disorders, cognitive and physical performance, and chronic disease. We identify 12 new genetic loci that implicate known components of the circadian clock machinery.

Loci associated with insomnia symptoms and excessive daytime sleepiness. Findings based on genome-wide association analyses in the UK Biobank cohort.

Alcohol consumption has been linked to over 200 diseases and is responsible for over 5% of the global disease burden. Well-known genetic variants in alcohol metabolizing genes, for example, ALDH2 and ADH1B, are strongly associated with alcohol consumption. We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of self-reported alcohol consumption in 112 117 individuals in the UK Biobank.

Birth weight (BW) has been shown to be influenced by both fetal and maternal factors. BW is reproducibly associated with future risk of adult metabolic diseases including type 2 diabetes (T2D) and cardiovascular disease1.

People's differences in cognitive functions are partly heritable and are associated with important life outcomes. Previous genome-wide association studies of cognitive functions have found evidence for polygenic effects yet, to date, there are few replicated genetic associations. Here we use data from the UK Biobank sample to investigate the genetic contributions to variation in tests of three cognitive functions and in educational attainment.

 Differences in general cognitive function have been shown to be partly heritable and to show genetic correlations with several psychiatric and physical disease states. Few single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have demonstrated genome-wide significance, hampering efforts aimed at determining which genetic variants are most important for cognitive function.

The identification of rare coding or splice site variants remains the most straightforward strategy to link genes with human phenotypes. We analyzed the association between 137,086 rare variants and 15 hematological traits in up to 308,572 participants. We found 56 such rare variants at P<5x10-8, including 31 that are associated with a blood-cell phenotype for the first time.

The lack of mechanistic explanations for many genotype-phenotype associations identified by GWAS precludes thorough assessment of their impact on human health. We conducted an expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) mapping analysis in erythroblasts and found erythroid-specific eQTLs for ATP2B4.

The UK Biobank is a unique resource for biomedical research. We aimed to examine the effect of neurodevelopmental copy number variants (CNVs) on the cognitive performance of participants. Carriers of schizophrenia-associated CNVs and of the group of 41 other neuro developmental CNVs had impaired performance on cognitive tests. They also had lower educational and occupational attainment.

Cognitive impairment was least common in major depression. Prevalence in mania/bipolar was similar to that in multiple sclerosis and Parkinson's disease. Estimated population attributable prevalence of cognitive impairment was higher for major depression than for all other disorders.

Cancer and cardiovascular disease (CVD) are common causes of morbidity and mortality. We measured raw and adjusted rates of CVD for the following groups: individuals with Hodgkin or non-Hodgkin lymphoma, lung and trachea cancer, uterus cancer, colorectal cancer, prostate cancer, breast cancer, or no recorded diagnosed cancer.

The personality trait of neuroticism has also been associated with elevated rates of death in some studies. We tested the possibility that it is the neuroticism trait itself, rather than the distress state, that is generating an increased risk of mortality. Higher neuroticism was weakly associated with total mortality.

Five thousand sixty-five UK Biobank participants underwent CMR using steady-state free precession imaging at 1.5 Tesla. With advancing age, LV volumes were mostly smaller in both sexes. LV ejection fraction was significantly greater in females compared to males.

The T allele of the FSHB promoter polymorphism (rs10835638; c.-211G>T) results in longer menstrual cycles and later menopause. While having detrimental effects on fertility, it is protective against endometriosis.

Being part of a multiple birth was strongly associated with early menopause (odds ratio = 1.42, confidence interval: 1.11, 1.82, P = 8.0 × 10-9) Earlier age at menarche and earlier year of birth were also associated with EM.

The minimum prevalence of any VRIA was 17.6% and 8.1% in the eyes with and without visual impairment, respectively. epiretinal membrane and vitreomacular traction were the most common VRIA. The degree of visual impairment was typically milder with these than with otherVRIA.

UK Biobank participants aged 40-69 had mild visual impairment or worse in one or both eyes. Increasing deprivation, age and ethnicity were independently associated with both monocular and binocular visual impairment. No primary diagnosis for the recorded level of visual impairment could be identified for 49.8% of eyes.

There is an international trend towards recommending medication to prevent cardiovascular disease (CVD) We assessed the cost-effectiveness of a population approach with a polypill including a statin.

Sex differences in adiposity storage may explain these findings. Body mass index and waist circumference were 1.94 (95% CI 1.82 to 2.07) and 4.84 (4.53 to 5.16) higher in women than in men, respectively. In type I diabetes, body size differed to a similar extent in women as in men.

Cross-sectional analysis of 502 664 individuals from the UK Biobank was conducted. Age at menarche was inversely associated with body mass index (BMI) Corresponding associations for other markers of general or abdominal adiposity were similar to those for BMI.

Biological evidence suggests that ethno-racial differences in morning-evening type are possible, whereby Blacks may be more likely to be morning type compared to Whites. However, population-level evidence of ethna-racial difference is limited. In an earlier study, we reported that morning type was more prevalent in Blacks compared to White in the UK Biobank cohort.

UK Biobank is a large prospective cohort comprising 502,637 men and women aged 40 to 69 years at recruitment. Of that number, 33,437 participants reported taking calcium supplements; 19,089 vitamin D; and 10,007 both. In crude and adjusted analyses, there were no associations between use of calcium supplements and risk of incident hospital admission with either IHD, or subsequent death.

Previous studies of the number of offspring and cardiovascular disease (CVD) report conflicting findings. We re-examined this association in both sexes to clarify the role of the cardiometabolic changes that women experience during pregnancy versus shared lifestyle characteristics.

Chronic pain has a strong association with major depressive disorder (MDD) There is a relative paucity of studies on the association between chronic multisite pain and bipolar disorder (BD) Such studies are required to help elucidate the complex biological and psychological overlap between pain and mood disorders.

UK Biobank recruited 263 450 participants (106 674 (52%) women; mean age 52.6), recruited from 22 sites across the UK. The exposure variable was the mode of transport used (walking, cycling, mixed mode  v  non-active (car or public transport) to commute to and from work on a typical day. Main outcome measures  Incident (fatal and non-fatal) CVD and cancer, and deaths from CVD, cancer, or any causes.

The CCL3L1-CCR5 signaling axis is important in a number of inflammatory responses, including macrophage function and T-cell-dependent immune responses. Small molecule CCR5 antagonists exist, including the approved antiretroviral drug maraviroc, and therapeutic monoclonal antibodies are in development.

Heart rate response to exercise provides useful information about the autonomic function. Its reproducibility over a long period of time, a critical requirement for using it as a clinical biomarker, is undetermined.

 increased bone mineral density is associated with a higher risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D), but the relationship with risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) is less clear. We identified 235 independent single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated at p  -8 with estimated heel bone mineraldensity (eBMD) in 116,501 individuals from the UK Biobank study. For each eBMD-associated SNP, we extracted effect estimates from the largest available GWAS studies for T2D and CHD.

Male pattern baldness has been linked to adverse health outcomes such as prostate cancer and cardiovascular disease. We explored the genetic architecture of the trait using data from over 52,000 male participants of UK Biobank, aged 40-69 years. We identified over 250 independent genetic loci associated with severe hair loss.

Overall prevalence of facial pain (FP) was 1.9% (women 2.4%, men 1.2%) of which 48% was chronic. Highest prevalence was found in the 51 - 55 age group and lowest in the 66 - 73 age group. Prevalence of FP significantly associated with all measures of social class with the most deprived and on lowest income showing the highest prevalence.

The selective pressures that shape clonal evolution in healthy individuals are largely unknown. Here we investigate 8,342 mosaic chromosomal alterations that we uncovered in blood-derived DNA from 151,202 UK Biobank participants. At three such loci we identified a likely causal variant that acted with high penetrance (5-50%)

Community cohort participants (UK Biobank n = 502 637) aged 37-73 years were recruited between 2006 and 2010. Self-reported LTCs (n = 42) identified in people with AF at baseline. All-cause mortality was available for a median follow-up of 7 years (interquartile range 76-93 months) Co-morbid heart failure was associated with higher risk of mortality.

Even small reductions in risk factors helped to reduce frailty, as well as dementia, chronic pain, and other disabling conditions of old age. Optimizing cardiovascular disease risk factors may substantially reduce the burden of morbidity in later life.

Chronic inflammatory disorders (e.g. rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disorders) were associated with a 14% increase in the mean arterial stiffness. The findings support the use of a stiffness index as means to stratify people with inflammatory disorders according to potential risk for future CVD events.

 GWAS confirmed 14 previously reported loci for migraine and identified 14 new loci. Headache and other psychological traits (such as neuroticism, depression, etc) share common genetic components.

Cognitive functioning was compared between persons with and without obstructive lung disease (OLD) The relationship between impairment in lung function and cognitive impairment was assessed among persons with OLD.

Study looked at 100 000 community-dwelling, 39-70 year-old volunteers. Data support an association between functional hearing and depression. The association was not alleviated by hearing-aid usage, but was partially confounded by other physical health problems.

Chronic pain is highly prevalent and a significant source of disability. Its relationship with major depressive disorder (MDD) is of particular importance. We sought to test the contribution of genetic factors and shared and unique environment to risk of chronic pain and its correlation with MDD in Generation Scotland: Scottish Family Health Study.

Higher body mass index (BMI) is a risk factor for cardiometabolic disease; however, the underlying causal associations remain unclear. The present study used UK Biobank data to report causal estimates of the association between BMI and disease outcomes and traits, such as pulse rate.

Data were available for more than 550,000 individuals and 51,623 cases of type 2 diabetes. PCSK9 variants associated with lower LDL cholesterol were also associated with circulating higher fasting glucose concentration, bodyweight, and waist-to-hip ratio.

Dorsal root ganglia (DRG) relay sensory information to the brain, giving rise to the perception of pain. Here, we mapped expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) in a collection of human DRGs. DRG eQ TLs were enriched within untranslated regions of coding genes of low abundance.

We have called CNVs in the full UK Biobank. 488,423 individual CEL files were downloaded in 2016 and 2017. They were analysed with Affymetrix Powertools, followed by PennCNV.

Alcohol use is correlated within spouse-pairs, but it is difficult to disentangle effects of alcohol consumption on mate-selection from social factors or the shared spousal environment. We hypothesised that genetic variants related to alcohol consumption may, via their effect on alcohol behaviour, influence mate selection. We find strong evidence that an individual's self-reported alcohol consumption and their genotype at rs1229984, a missense variant in ADH1B, are associated with their partner's alcohol use.

 intelligence and education are phenotypically and genetically correlated, which makes it difficult to elucidate causal relationships. We used univariate and multivariable Mendelian randomization to estimate the total and direct effects of intelligence and educational attainment on mental and physical health, measures of socioeconomic position, and longevity. Higher intelligence had positive direct effects on income, alcohol consumption, and vigorous physical activity.

Red and processed meat may be risk factors for breast cancer due to their iron content, administration of oestrogens to cattle or mutagens created during cooking. We studied the associations in UK Biobank and then included the results in a meta-analysis of published cohort studies.

The potential of Mendelian randomization studies is rapidly expanding due to the growing power of genome-wide association study (GWAS) meta-analyses. We build upon and synthesize recent advances in the literature on instrumental variables (IVs) estimation that test and relax the exclusion restriction. We illustrate the practical use of PRMR by estimating the causal effect of tobacco exposure on body mass index.

Genome Wide Association Study (GWAS) using age at death of parents of middle-aged UK Biobank participants of European decent. Offspring of longer lived parents had more protective alleles for coronary artery disease, systolic blood pressure, body mass index, cholesterol and triglyceride levels.

In human populations, assortative mating is almost univer&#173;sally positive. We find a correlation in genetic value among partners for a range of phenotypes. Our results imply that mate choice, combined with widespread pleiotropy, affects the genomic architecture of traits in humans.

This research was conducted using the UK Biobank Resource. Data, including genome-wide genotypes, were available for 105,421 European participants aged 40-69 years without kidney disease. Gout definitions and combinations of these definitions were identified from previous epidemiological studies.

Aging populations face diminishing quality of life due to increased disease and morbidity. These challenges call for longevity research to focus on understanding the pathways controlling healthspan. We identify 12 loci associated with healthspan at the whole-genome significance level.

Quantifying the effects of inbreeding is critical to characterizing the genetic architecture of complex traits. This study highlights the strengths and shortcomings of three SNP-based inbreeding measures commonly used to estimate inbreeding depression (ID) We find unique evidence of ID for handgrip strength, waist/hip ratio, and visual and auditory acuity.

A recent large-scale mega genome-wide association study identified, for the first time, genetic variants at 12 loci significantly associated with ADHD. We used a powerful polygenic approach to investigate the etiological overlap between ADHD and frequently co-occurring traits and disorders. We found no interaction effects between polygenic risk for ADHD and sex on any phenotypes.

Many common variants have been associated with hematological traits. Identification of causal genes and pathways has proven challenging. We performed a genome-wide association analysis in the UK Biobank and INTERVAL studies.

Higher grip strength was associated with a range of health outcomes and improved prediction of an office based risk score. In women and men, respectively, hazard ratios per 5 kg lower grip strength were higher (all at P)

Discretionary screen time is an important contributor to total sedentary behaviour. It is associated with increased risk of mortality and cardiovascular disease (CVD) The aim of this study was to determine whether the associations of screen time with cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality were modified by levels of cardiorespiratory fitness, grip strength or physical activity.

Grip strength and diabetes are predictors of mortality and cardiovascular disease (CVD) But whether these risk factors interact to predispose to adverse health outcomes is unknown. Study determined the interactions between diabetes and grip strength and their association with health outcomes.

Genome-wide association studies of birth weight have focused on fetal genetics. We aimed to identify maternal genetic variants associated with birth weight. Maternal SNPs at 10 loci were associated with offspring birth weight at P.

Being a morning person is a behavioural indicator of a person's underlying circadian rhythm. Using genome-wide data from 697,828 UK Biobank and 23andMe participants we increase the number of genetic loci associated with being a morningperson from 24 to 351.

Macular thickness was positively correlated with older age, female gender, greater myopia, smoking, body mass index (BMI), and white ethnicity. We report macular thickness data derived from SD OCT images collected as part of the UK Biobank (UKBB) study.

Retinal pigment epithelium (RPE)-Bruch's membrane (BM) complex thickness as measured by spectral-domain (SD) optical coherence tomography (OCT) Study included people with no self-reported ocular disease, diabetes, or neurologic disorders. RPE-BM was significantly thinner with older age.

 Depression is a polygenic trait that causes extensive periods of disability. Previous genetic studies have identified common risk variants. Here, we conduct a genome-wide association study in 322,580 UK Biobank participants for three depression-related phenotypes.

UK Biobank plans to acquire 100,000 cardiac MRI studies by 2020. Fully-automated left ventricular (LV) analysis was performed in the original acquisition. This was not designed for unsupervised incorporation into epidemiological studies.

Cardiovascular resonance (CMR) imaging is a standard imaging modality for assessing cardiovascular diseases (CVDs), the leading cause of death globally. CMR enables accurate quantification of the cardiac chamber volume, ejection fraction and myocardial mass. For years, clinicians have been relying on manual approaches for CMR image analysis.

The framework reproduced significant reductions in circumferential strain in participants with diabetes, hypertensive participants, and participants with a previous heart attack. Typical processing time was approximately 260 frames (approximately 13 slices) per second on a GPU with 12 GB RAM compared with 6-8 minutes per slice for the manual analysis.

Little is known about the effect of cessation of menstruation on lung function. The study was performed in 141 076 women from the UK Biobank. The associations of lung function (forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV 1) and spirometric restriction (F VC) were stronger in women who had had a hysterectomy and/or oophorectomy.

People with a history of depression are at increased risk for developing autoimmune diseases and vice-versa. One explanation could be that there is shared genetic risk for depression and autoimmune diseases. In our study we looked at a region of the genome called the Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) The MHC is important in human immunity and harbours genetic variation that increases risk.

Physical activity and sleep duration are established risk factors for many diseases. Their aetiology is poorly understood, partly due to relying on self-reported evidence. Here we report a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of device-measured physical activity andSleep duration in 91,105 UK Biobank participants.

Lung function predicts mortality and is key to the diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) In a genome-wide association study in 400,102 individuals of European ancestry, we define 279 lung function signals, 139 of which are new. In combination, these variants strongly predict COPD in independent populations.

Mood instability is a core clinical feature of affective and psychotic disorders. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of mood instability in 53,525 cases and 60,443 controls from UK Biobank. We found a strong genetic correlation between mood instability and MDD and a small but significant correlation with schizophrenia.

People with more grey matter, and more intact connections between regions, had slightly higher scores on the abstract puzzle tests. The strongest effects were such that higher grey matter volume in the frontal pole and greater white matter microstructure in the posterior thalamic radiations were associated with higher fluid intelligence scores.

Neuroticism is an important risk factor for psychiatric traits, including depression1, anxiety2,3, and schizophrenia4-6. We conducted a large GWAS meta-analysis (n = 449,484) of neuroticism and identified 136 independent genome-wide significant loci. We show that neuroticism's genetic signal partly originates in two genetically distinguishable subclusters ('depressed affect' and 'worry')

Aortic distensibility can be calculated using semi-automated methods to segment the aortic lumen on cine CMR images. These methods require visual quality control and manual localization of the region of interest (ROI) of ascending (AA) and proximal descending (PDA) aorta. Using 5,100 scans from UK Biobank, this study sought to develop and validate a fully automated method.

Risk-taking behaviour is a key component of several psychiatric disorders. It could influence lifestyle choices such as smoking, alcohol use, and diet. Identifying genetic determinants of this trait has the potential to improve our understanding.

60 genetic variants have been robustly associated with birthweight. It is unclear whether these associations represent the effect of an individual's own genotype on their birthweight, their mother's genotype, or both. We demonstrate how structural equation modelling can be used to estimate both maternal and fetal effects.

Study included 126,182 postmenopausal women from UK Biobank. Overall, coffee consumption was not associated with breast cancer risk. Women with no PMH history who consumed &#8805; 4 cups/day had a 16% reduced risk of breast cancer.

Heritability estimation provides important information about the relative contribution of genetic and environmental factors to phenotypic variation. We demonstrate that common genetic variation contributes to a broad array of quantitative traits and human diseases in the UK population. We identify phenotypes whose heritability is moderated by age, sex and socioeconomic status.

Seasonality of total depressive symptom scores, anhedonia and tiredness scores was observed in women but not men, with peaks in winter. Shorter days were associated with increased feelings of low mood and anhedonian in women.

We used a Mendelian randomization approach to examine a potential causal effect of vitamin B12 and folate on hay fever, asthma, and selected biomarkers of allergy. We included 162,736 participants from 9 population-based studies including the UK Biobank. Results were combined in instrumental variable and meta-analyses and effects expressed as odds ratios (ORs)

Body mass index (BMI) is positively associated with asthma. We examined the causal effect of BMI on asthma, hay fever, allergic sensitization, serum total immunoglobulin E (IgE), forced expiratory volume in one-second (FEV1) and forced vital capacity (FVC) A genetic risk score was created using 26 BMI-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)

There is strong evidence that people born in winter and in spring have a small increased risk of schizophrenia. This 'season of birth' effect underpins some of the most influential hypotheses concerning potentially modifiable risk exposures. Here we sought to determine whether the season of birth effect reflects gene-environment confounding.

Study looked at the prevalence and incidence of chronic co-morbidities in people with inflammatory rheumatic and musculoskeletal diseases (iRMDs) The relationship between the presence (versus absence) of a (co-)morbidity and physical activity level (low, moderate, high) was assessed.

Low levels of blood cholesterol are known to be associated with increased risk of infectious disease. It remains unclear if this relationship is causal in nature. This study assessed the influence of common variants associated with blood lipid levels on infectious disease risk in individuals of British Caucasian ancestry from the UK Biobank.

Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) is an important risk factor for glaucoma. We constructed polygenic risk scores (PRSs) for IOP using the UK Biobank (UKB) data set. We examined the associations of the PRSs with IOP and primary open-angle glau coma (POAG) using linear and logistic regression.

Time spent in moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) and cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) may reflect different pathways linking activity to brain health. Previous work has confirmed the benefits of aerobic exercise for brain aging, however mechanisms underlying these effects remain unclear.

Researchers analysed genetic variants that predict testosterone levels and their associations with blood clots (thromboembolism), heart failure and heart attack. Participants were aged 40 to 75 years and most were of British or European ancestry. Heart conditions were identified from self-reports, hospital and death records and results were validated using data from another large genome study.

Some of the most widely studied variants in psychiatric genetics include variable number tandem repeat variants (VNTRs) These loci remain absent from the largest available samples, such as the UK Biobank. Here, we report out-of-sample imputation accuracy estimates of >0.96 for all four VNTR variants.

Testosterone supplementation has been linked to increased cardiovascular disease risk in some observational studies. We assessed genetic associations of variants in two gene regions that are predictors of testosterone (SHBG and JMJD1C)

We propose a method based on deep learning to perform cardiac segmentation on short axis Magnetic resonance imaging stacks. At each iteration, a novel variant of the U-net is applied to propagate the segmentation of a slice to the adjacent slice below it. Results comparable or even better than the state of the art in terms of distance measures are achieved.

In a combined sample of over 1 million individuals, we conducted genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of general risk tolerance, adventurousness, and risky behaviors in the driving, drinking, smoking, and sexual domains. Across all GWAS, we identified hundreds of associated loci, including 99 loci associated with general riskolerance.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a common cardiac arrhythmia and a major risk factor for stroke, heart failure, and premature death. The pathogenesis of AF remains poorly understood, which contributes to the current lack of highly effective treatments. To understand the genetic variation and biology underlying AF, we undertook a genome-wide association study.

We performed a large genome-wide association study to discover genetic variation associated with muscular strength. In our analysis of 223,315 individuals, we identified 101 loci associated with grip strength.

We studied associations between different measures of fitness and physical activity and incident cardiovascular disease events. In addition, we evaluated these associations in individuals with different genetic risk for coronary heart disease and atrial fibrillation.

Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in British men but its aetiology is not well understood. We studied 219 335 men from the UK Biobank study. 4575 incident cases of prostate cancer occurred during 5.6 years of follow-up.

Men had greater intakes of energy and were less likely to have energy intakes above the estimated average requirement compared with women. Small, but significant, sex differences were found in the intakes of all macronutrients. Sex differences in dietary intakes moderated by age and to some extent by socioeconomic status.

 Educational attainment is associated with many health outcomes, including longevity. We used data from three large genetic epidemiology cohort studies. A 1 SD higher polygenic education score was associated with &#8764;2.7% lower mortality risk.

This project analysed data from UK Biobank participants with self-reported Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), compared to those who did not report that condition. The aim was to compare patterns of multimorbidity (more than one long term health condition) and polypharmacy.

Dietary habits are leading risk factors for life-altering diseases and mortality. Large-scale biobanks now enable genetic analysis of traits with modest heritability, such as diet. We identify 814 associated loci, including olfactory receptor associations with fruit and tea intake.

Deep learning (DL) algorithms can analyse cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) images, but the presence of unanticipated analysis-errors currently excludes their use in clinical practice. We developed a pipeline for DL-based analysis of cine CMR, including quality control (QC) steps that prevent erroneous outputs.

Current public health guidelines on physical activity and sleep duration are limited by a reliance on subjective self-reported evidence. Using data from simple wrist-worn activity monitors, we developed a tailored machine learning model, using balanced random forests with Hidden Markov Models, to reliably detect a number of activity modes.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) promised to translate their findings into clinically beneficial improvements of patient management. However, the ability to translate genetic findings from GWAS into predictive tools that are of clinical utility has, so far, been encouraging but limited. Here we propose to use a more powerful statistical approach, the use of which has traditionally been limited due to computational requirements and lack of sufficiently large individual level genotyped cohorts.

Physical activity (PA) protects against a wide range of diseases. Habitual PA appears to be heritable, motivating the search for specific genetic variants. We examined genetic correlations of PA with other traits and diseases.

Machine learning algorithms can be trained to estimate age from brain structural MRI. The method was trained on a dataset of healthy Icelanders and tested on two datasets, IXI and UK Biobank, utilizing transfer learning to improve accuracy on new sites.

We constructed a genetic risk score for high BP by using 314 published BP loci in 277005 individuals without previous CVD. We scored participants according to their lifestyle factors including body mass index, healthy diet, sedentary lifestyle, alcohol consumption, smoking.

We identified variations in 6 genes associated with levels of liver inflammation and scarring. Participants with variations in 4 of these genes also had higher levels of markers of liver cell injury in blood samples.

We carried out meta-analyses of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of the first two principal components (PCs) PC1 (global) captured variations of most regions, whereas PC2 (visual) was specific to the primary and secondary visual cortices. We then tested associations with occupational aptitudes and found that the global PC1 was associated with General Learning Ability.

Cross-sectional study examined impact of MHT on left ventricular (LV) and left atrial (LA) structure and function. In this large cohort of post-menopausal women free of cardiovascular disease, MHT was not associated with adverse, subclinical changes in cardiac structure andfunction.

Impaired capacity to increase heart rate (HR) during exercise (&#916;HRex), and a reduced rate of recovery post-exercise (&#915;HRrec) are associated with higher cardiovascular mortality rates. Currently, the genetic basis of both phenotypes remains to be elucidated. We conduct genome-wide association studies (GWASs) in 40,000 individuals and 27,000 independent samples.

This study sough to answer whether the risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease was different between individuals with without genetic causes for high levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood. In this cohort study of 48 741 adults recruited by the UK Biobank, a monogenic cause for hypercholesterolemia was found in 277 participants (0.57%) and a polygenic cause in 2379 participants (4.9%).

 Differences in cardiac and aortic structure and function are associated with cardiovascular diseases and a wide range of other types of disease. Here we analyzed cardiovascular magnetic resonance images from a population-based study, the UK Biobank, using an automated machine-learning-based analysis pipeline. We report a comprehensive range of structural and functional phenotypes for the heart and aorts across 26,893 participants.

Using a meta-scoring approach, we develop a metaGRS for ischaemic stroke (IS) We analyse this score in the UK Biobank (n = 395,393; 3075 IS events by age 75) The MetaGRS hazard ratio for IS (1.26, 95% CI 1.22-1.31) doubles that of a previous GRS.

We present an atlas of genetic associations for 118 non-binary and 660 binary traits of 452,264 UK Biobank participants of European ancestry. Results are compiled in a publicly accessible database that allows querying genome-wide association results for 9,113,133 genetic variants.

 Moderate coffee consumption has been inversely associated with mortality. It remained unclear whether heavy intake, particularly among those with common genetic polymorphisms that impair caffeine metabolism, increases risk of mortality. In this large prospective cohort study of a half million people, we found inverse associations for coffee drinking.

 genome-wide association study identified 1,362 independent SNPs that clustered into 899 loci of which 613 are new. Data were used to train a genetic algorithm using 22,886 SNPs as predictors. Combining this genetic algorithm with height, weight, age and sex resulted in a correlation with heel bone mineral density of 0.496.

 Depression with atypical features shows different heritability and different degree of overlap with polygenic risk for psychiatric and immuno-metabolic traits than other depression subgroups.

This study aimed to investigate associations between fat mass (i.e., body mass index [BMI], waist circumference [WC], and waist to hip ratio [WTHR]) and hippocampal volumes. Our findings indicate that the detrimental effects of overweight/obesity on the neurological health of individuals may extend beyond the duration of overweight.

Common variant heritability has been widely reported to be concentrated in variants within cell-type-specific non-coding functional annotations. Little is known about low-frequency variant functional architectures. We partitioned the heritability of both low- frequency (0.5%&#8804; minor allele frequency) and high-frequency variants.

We conducted a Genome wide association study of a suicidality scale. We validated our results by using Polygenic risk scoring ( a method that allows us to calculate an individual s genetic loading for a trait. We found that the loading for suicIDality was higher in those who had committed suicide.

Coffee-related genetic variants could be used as proxies for coffee consumption in Mendelian randomization studies. Study examined their association with non-alcoholic beverage consumption and a range of socio-demographic and life-style factors. Genetic risk scores demonstrated positive associations with caffeinated and decaffeinated coffee and tea consumption.

Research examining associations between air pollution exposure and respiratory symptoms in adults has generally been inconclusive. This may be related in part to sample size issues, which also preclude analysis in potentially vulnerable subgroups. We estimated associations between. air pollution exposures and the prevalence of wheeze and shortness of breath. using harmonized baseline data from two very large European cohorts.

Ambient air pollution increases the risk of respiratory mortality. Evidence for impacts on lung function and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is less well established. We used UK Biobank data on 303 887 individuals aged 40-69 years. COPD was associated with higher concentrations of PM 2.5 and PM 10.

The UK Biobank is a large-scale population-based study utilising cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) to generate measurements of atrial and ventricular structure and function. Age, sex, ethnicity (non-modifiable), systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood. pressure, smoking status, exercise, body mass index (BMI), high cholesterol, diabetes, alcohol intake (modifiable) were considered important cardiovascular risk factors.

Genetic factors are believed to affect risk for irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) There have been no sufficiently powered and adequately sized studies. We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of the large UK Biobank population-based cohort.

Those who very rarely consume alcohol performed better than moderate drinkers. As consumption increased beyond moderate consumption performance declined. To preserve cognitive performance drinkers should limit their average daily consumption to 8 grams of alcohol.

Habitual coffee consumption has been associated with lower risk of type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and sarcopenia. In addition, caffeine intake stimulates attention and vigilance, and reduces reaction time. A protective effect of coffee on the risk of falling can be hypothesized.

In observational studies, early menopause is associated with lower forced vital capacity (FVC) and a higher risk of spirometric restriction, but not airflow obstruction. It is, however, unclear if this association is causal. We used a Mendelian randomisation (MR) approach, which is not affected by classical confounding. We included 94 742 naturally post-menopausal women from the UK Biobank.

KnockoffZoom is a flexible method that localizes causal variants at multiple resolutions. It tests the conditional associations of genetic segments of decreasing width. The method can detect more associations than mixed effects models.

Cigarette smoking is associated with increased risk for myriad health consequences including cognitive decline and dementia. In the current study, we assessed the relationship of cigarette smoking with gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) in the UK Biobank. Ever smoked and duration were associated with smaller total GM volume.

Some previous evidence has linked dairy products with greater muscle mass, bone mineral density and lower risk of osteoporosis. Other authors have found a detrimental effect of milk on the risk of hip fracture.

This paper tested for associations between depression, chronic inflammatory conditions (like rheumatoid arthritis), and cognitive abilities of memory, reasoning, and reaction time. It was found that both (sets of) conditions associated with worse cognitive abilities, but they did not interact.

The adverse impact of visual impairment and blindness and correlations with socioeconomic position are known. Understanding of the effect of the substantially more common near-normal vision (mild impairment) and associations with social position as well as health and life chances is limited.

One type of white blood cell which is commonly assessed with regular blood samples by your GP may be helpful in determining men at higher risk than others. This is taking into account all their other known risk factors.

For every additional drink consumed per day of total fluid, the risk of kidney stones declined by 13%. Similar patterns of associations were observed for tea, coffee, and alcohol. Fruit and fibre intake was also associated with a lower risk. Meat and salt intake was associated with higher risk. Vegetable, fish, and cheese intake was not associated with kidney stones.

Over 350,000 people from across the UK told us the mode(s) of transport they used to get to work. We linked this to information from hospital admission data, cancer registries and death certificates. More active patterns of travel were associated with a reduced risk of heart attacks and deaths.

To assess the relationship between physical activity levels and the risk of disease or death, researchers have to follow study participants over a period of time. Prior to this study, it was not known whether the length of that follow-up time makes a difference to the relationships seen. Using UK Biobank data, we investigated the relationships between. physical activity and mortality and cardiovascular disease.

Calcific aortic valve stenosis (CAVS) is a common and life-threatening heart disease. Current treatment options cannot stop or delay its progression. PALMD (palmdelphin) was found to be significantly associated with CAVS.

More severe depressive symptoms were associated with reduced likelihood of breast (OR = 0.960, 95% CI: 0.950,0.970) and cervical screening participation, in cross-sectional analyses. Higher neuroticism scores were linked to reduced cervical screening, but the opposite was found for breast cancer screening.

Suicide is a worldwide public health problem with more than 800,000 deaths due to suicide each year. Rates of suicide are far exceeded by suicide attempts, which occur up to 20 times more frequently, making suicidality a huge personal, social and economic burden.

Dental caries and periodontitis account for a vast burden of morbidity and healthcare spending, yet their genetic basis remains largely uncharacterized. We identify self-reported dental disease proxies which have similar underlying genetic contributions to clinical disease measures. We then combine these in a genome-wide association study meta-analysis, identifying 47 novel and conditionally-independent risk loci for dental caries.

Fifty four percent of participants aged 40-69 years had refractive error. 27% had myopia (4% high myopia), which was more common amongst younger people, those of higher socio-economic status, or of White or Chinese ethnicity. frequency of hypermetropia increased with age, was higher in women and its severity was associated with ethnicity.

UK Biobank study included 117 278 participants aged 40 to 69 years in 6 regional centers in England and Wales. Patients underwent autorefraction measurement. Spherical equivalent in the more extreme eye was used to categorize myopia and hypermetropia.

Women with premature and early menopause had a substantially increased risk of a non-fatal cardiovascular disease event before the age of 60 years, but not after age 70 years. Compared with women who hadMenopause at age 50 51 years, women with premature had an increased risk.

Mean ages were 12.9 years at menarche, 25.7 years at first birth, and 50.5 years at natural menopause. The prevalence of nulliparity rose progressively from 14% of women born from 1940 49 to 22% of woman born 1970 84. Women with higher education levels had fewer children, later first birth and laterMenopause than women with lower education levels.

Early menopause is associated with an increased risk of subsequent cardiovascular disease (CVD) Few studies have investigated the converse. We examined whether premenopausal CVD events are associated with early age atMenopause. We pooled data of 177,131 women from nine studies.

 duration of smoking was a strong predictor of age at natural menopause. Smokers who had quit smoking for more than 10 years had similar risk as never smokers.

A group of experts in mental health disorders in the population worked together with UK Biobank scientists to design and send out a questionnaire about mental health. The questionnaire aimed to tell the difference between participants who had experienced depression, anxiety or addiction disorders and those who had not. They also asked about self-harm and unusual experiences, and about their overall wellbeing. The people who responded tended to be more educated and slightly more healthy.

Between 2009 and 2010, 117 281 subjects recruited by UK Biobank undertook an ophthalmic assessment, including autorefraction. Of those with refractive error within a range eligible for laser refractive surgery (n = 60 352), 1892 (3.1%) reported having bilateralRefractive surgery and 549 (0.9%) unilateral surgery. Frequency of bilateral surgery decreased with increasing age and was higher in women.

Heart failure (HF) is a morbid and heritable disorder for which the biological mechanisms are incompletely understood. We examined genetic associations with HF in a large national biobank. We refined the HF phenotype by classifying individuals with left ventricular dysfunction as having nonischemic cardiomyopathy (NICM)

We performed large-scale, deep-coverage whole genome sequencing to identify genetic variants related to atrial fibrillation. Rare variation in the gene TTN, encoding the sarcomeric protein titin, was associated with early-onset AF. The findings from common and rare variant analyses were successfully replicated using UKBB and MyCode studies.

Cardiac rhythm abnormalities are prevalent in community-dwelling adults. New rhythm abnormalities developed at a rate of nearly 0.5%/year. Risk of incident cardiac rhythm abnormalities is increased in the setting of older age, male sex, traditional cardiac risk factors, and chronic kidney disease.

Using the UK Biobank, we performed a phenome-wide association study (pheWAS) for 12 AF risk factors. Distinct clusters of variants were associated with AF as well as height, BMI, and hypertension. Results extend our understanding of the biological pathways underlying AF and may facilitate the development of therapeutics for AF.

Lifetime risk of AF is nearly 37 % in individual of European ancestry. Individuals who have higher genetics risk or clinical risks would have higher chance to develop AF. Patients who have a lower clinical risk burden were associated with a later AF onset time.

The UK Biobank assessed Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) and self-reported lifetime exposure to traumatic events in 126,522 genotyped individuals of European ancestry. The SNP-based heritability of MDD with reported trauma exposure (24%) was greater than MDD without trauma exposure.

Tobacco and alcohol use are leading causes of mortality that influence risk for many complex diseases and disorders. They are heritable2,3 and etiologically related behaviors that have been resistant to gene discovery efforts. In sample sizes up to 1.2 million individuals, we discovered 566 genetic variants in 406 loci associated with multiple stages of tobacco use.

Smoking and alcohol use have been associated with common genetic variants in multiple loci. Rare variants within these loci hold promise in the identification of biological mechanisms in substance use. Exome arrays and genotype imputation can now efficiently genotype rare nonsynonymous and loss of function variants.

APOE e4 genotype is found in about 25% of the general population. It is a known risk factor for dementia. It has sometimes been called the 'frailty gene' partly because it seems to increase vulnerability.

Ever-drinking versus non-drink was positively associated with hay fever and inversely with asthma. Genetic predisposition to consume more alcohol did not affect risk of hay fever, asthma, allergic sensitization or serum levels of total IgE. The discrepancy of results between observational and Mendelian randomization analyses could be due to potential residual confounding.

There is no "correct" indicator - all will have advantages and disadvantages. The decision of which indicators to use, and how to combine, will depend on the aims of the study.

Cannabis use is a heritable trait that has been associated with adverse mental health outcomes. UK Biobank data was combined to create the largest genome-wide association study (GWAS) for lifetime cannabis use to date (N=184,765)

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is highly heritable and recent studies have identified over 20 disease-associated genomic loci. Yet these only explain a small proportion of the genetic variance, indicating that undiscovered loci remain. We performed a large genome-wide association study of clinically diagnosed AD and AD-by-proxy (71,880 cases, 383,378 controls)

The Default-mode network (DMN) is a key functional network of the human brain. We conducted genome-wide association analysis to find regions of the genome linked to variation in the functional activity of the DMN. We found that the set of brain-expressed HAR genes to be significantly associated with the phenotypic variation in DMN amplitude.

The link between personality traits and cognitive performance has been extensively studies. Neuroticism and executive functions seem to be particularly involved, and reduced executive function has been proposed to underlie the association of neuroticism with sedentary behaviors and fatty food consumption.

Mosaic loss of the Y chromosome (mLOY) is the most commonly reported large structural somatic event. Previous studies have indicated age and cigarette smoking increase the risk of mLOY. Relationship of other exposures with mLOY and mLOY with disease has not been adequately investigated.

Apolipoprotein (APOE) e4 genotype is an accepted risk factor for accelerated cognitive aging and dementia. The deleterious effects of this genotype on brain structure may increase in magnitude into older age. This study aimed to investigate the association between APOE e4 allele presence vs. absence and brain imaging variables that have been associated with worse cognitive abilities.

Stroke increases the likelihood of social isolation and stroke survivors are at high risk of cognitive decline. We assessed the association between social engagement and cognitive function in a sample of stroke survivors.

Osteoporotic fractures are a major healthcare problem affecting worldwide more than 9 million individuals every year. Genetic predisposition to other clinical risk factors like vitamin D levels and calcium intake were not found to be directly predisposing fracture. interventions aimed at increasing bone and muscle strength are more likely to be successful in preventing fractures.

Study explored impact of our physical health, such as body weight, heart health and blood pressure. We tested 11 measures of physical health including coronary artery disease, heart attack, cholesterol, blood pressure, body fat and BMI. Results suggested a consistent causal effect of higher BMI on lower mental wellbeing.

Frailty indices (FIs) measure variation in health between aging individuals. Researching FIs in resources with large-scale genetic and phenotypic data will provide insights into the causes and consequences of frailty. We aimed to develop an FI using UK Biobank data, a cohort study of 500,000 middle-aged and older adults.

Research analyses whether personalised weight feedback resulted in individuals losing weight over a period of between 2 and 7 years. The effect of feedback was found to be strongly moderated by household income, with those in higher income households accounting for seemingly all of the estimated effect due to increased physical activity.

COPD is the leading cause of respiratory mortality worldwide. We performed a genome-wide association study in 35,735 cases and 222,076 controls. We identified 82 loci associated with P.

Coffee is one of the most widely consumed stimulants worldwide. Increased risk of myocardial infarction and hypertension has been suggested for individuals who carry a functional variant at cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)

Coffee's long-term effect on cognitive function remains unclear with studies suggesting both benefits and adverse effects. We used Mendelian randomization to investigate the causal relationship between habitual coffee consumption and cognitive function. This included up to 415,530 participants and 300,760 coffee drinkers from 10 European ancestry cohorts.

 serum 25(OH)D concentration as a causal factor for cognitive performance in mid- to later life. In this study, we combined results from 17 cohorts (with UK Biobank being the largest study)

UK Biobank recruited over 500,000 people aged 40 to 69 years. Participants provided detailed information on health and lifestyle factors including pain and alcohol consumption. Total units consumed per week were calculated for current drinkers. Information was also collected on changes in alcohol consumption and reasons for such changes.

UK Biobank, a cohort study of 0.5 million people aged 40-69 years, recruited throughout Great Britain in 2006-2010. Participants reporting 'pain all over the body' for >3 months were compared with persons without chronic pain.

Hearing loss is associated with changes in brain volume in regions supporting auditory and cognitive processing. Whole-brain gray matter volume was significantly lower for individuals with poorer SRTn. The greatest percentage difference (-0.57%) in ROI volume was found in the left superior temporal gyrus. There was no conclusive evidence that this effect is moderated by hearing aid use.

Study aims to test whether polygenic risk for Alzheimer's disease, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), or frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is associated with cognitive function and physical health in the UK Biobank. Higher polygenicrisk for AD, ALS, and FTD was associated with lower cognitive performance.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a public health priority for the 21st century. Risk reduction currently revolves around lifestyle changes with much research trying to elucidate the biological underpinnings. We show that self-report of parental history of Alzheimer's dementia is a valid proxy for an AD genetic study.

Study looked at 449,073 UK Biobank participants. Suicide occurred more frequently in those who had high levels of distress. Also scored high in neuroticism and had history of seeing a psychiatrist.

Early menarche, early menopause, earlier age at first birth, and a history of miscarriage, stillbirth or hysterectomy were each associated with a higher risk of CVD in later life. Women who had given birth to more children also had higher subsequent CVD risk.

Excess adipose tissue is a major risk factor for myocardial infarction (MI) There are substantial differences in the distribution of fat between women and men. Measures of central adiposity, particularly waist-to-hip ratio, were more strongly associated with the risk of MI.

Low birthweight has been associated with a higher risk of hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D), and cardiovascular disease. The Barker hypothesis posits that intrauterine growth restriction resulting in lower birthweight is causal for these diseases. We performed regression analyses to assess associations of birthweight with cardiovascular disease and T2D.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a common complication among individuals with diabetes. A better understanding of the genetic background of CAD in this population could suggest novel molecular targets for screening, risk assessment and drug development.

Large-scale studies of risk factors for varicose veins may highlight important aspects of pathophysiology and identify groups at increased risk for disease. Machine learning confirmed several known (age, sex, obesity, pregnancy, history of deep vein thrombosis) and identified several new risk factors, including height.

Higher blood pressure indices, smoking intensity, body mass  index, and the presence of diabetes were associated with an increased risk of MI in men and women. Sex specific associations between risk factors and MI declined with age, but, where it occurred, the higher relative risk in women remained.

To date, the effects of the co-occurrence of stroke with other long term conditions have been poorly explored. Increasing multimorbidity was associated with higher all-cause mortality. Mortality risk was double for those with =5 comorbidities.

Isolated and lonely people are at increased risk of death. Health policies addressing risk factors such as adverse socioeconomic conditions, unhealthy lifestyle, and lower mental wellbeing might reduce excess mortality.

More than one in three adults worldwide is either overweight or obese. The location and distribution of excess fat is more informative for predicting risk of obesity sequelae, including cardiometabolic disease and cancer.

Muscle mass measures are used in the current definitions of sarcopenia. Their usefulness is uncertain because of limited data on their association with health outcomes. This study compared the performance of different muscle mass measures in predicting incident osteoporosis in postmenopausal women.

In December 2019, a novel disease, coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19), emerged in Wuhan, People's Republic of China. To date, over 300,000 cases of CO VID-19 have been reported in England and over 40,000 patients have died. Recent studies have identified links between air pollution and death rates.

Ongoing studies show that higher hemoglobin A 1c (A1C) predicts coronary artery disease (CAD) It remains unclear whether this association is driven entirely by glycemia. We used Mendelian randomization to test whether A1C is causally associated with CAD through glycemic and/or nonglycemic factors.

UK Biobank study recruited 40-70-year-olds in 2006-2010. 2658 had been tested for SARS-CoV-2 and 948 tested positive (726 in hospital) Black and south Asian groups were more likely to test positive.

Coffee consumption and cigarette smoking are strongly associated, but whether this association is causal remains unclear. We used Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses of observational data. In-vitro experiments assessed the effect of caffeic acid, quercetin and p-coumaric acid on the rate of nicotine metabolism.

Cigarette smokers are at increased risk of poor sleep behaviors. It is largely unknown whether these associations are due to shared (genetic) risk factors and/or causal effects (which may be bidirectional) We found evidence that smoking more cigarettes causally decreases the odds of being a morning person.

We found some evidence that personality traits are causally linked to certain smoking phenotypes. Among current smokers each additional neuroticism risk allele was associated with smoking an additional 0.07 cigarettes per day. Evidence in the reverse direction, from smoking initiation to personality was weaker.

Recent studies have suggested that even low-intensity smoking might be associated with increased mortality. Smoking is associated with lower socio-economic status as well as other potential risk factors. Disease onset might motivate smoking cessation, thus residual confounding and reverse causality might bias results.

 Observational studies on smoking and risk of hay fever and asthma have shown inconsistent results. However, observational studies may be biased by confounding and reverse causation. Mendelian randomization uses genetic variants as markers of exposures to examine causal effects.

Cigarette smoke increases metabolism of caffeine, so this may represent a causal effect of smoking on caffeine intake. Each additional cigarette per day consumed by current smokers was associated with higher coffee consumption. There was weak evidence for an increase in tea consumption per additional cigarette smoked per day.

There is strong evidence of a positive association between cigarette and alcohol consumption. We tested whether smoking is likely to increase alcohol consumption using a genetic variant (rs1051730/rs16969968)

Frailty and multimorbidity have been suggested as risk factors for severe COVID-19 disease. We investigated whether these factors were associated with risk of hospitalisation. We intend to further investigate the prognostic value of these markers for adverse clinical sequelae.

 increases in fat-free mass and fat mass have been associated with higher risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) in observational studies. Our aim was to evaluate independent causal roles of fat- free mass andfat mass on AF.

UK Biobank participants without cardiovascular disease aged 39-70 completed psychiatric questions relating International Classification of Diseases-10 Revision (ICD-10) diagnostic criteria on a touchscreen questionnaire at baseline interview in 2006-2010.

Urine biomarkers reflecting kidney function and handling of dietary sodium and potassium are strongly associated with several common diseases. Knowledge about the genetic determinants of these biomarkers may shed light on pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the development of these diseases. We highlight GIPR, a potential diabetes drug target, as possibly implicated in the genetic control of urinary potassium excretion.

Data on 36 chronic conditions from 502,643 participants aged 40 to 69 years were extracted from the UK Biobank. The likelihood of co-occurrence of these conditions is 13 times higher than in isolation. Conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, and asthma are the epicenter of disease clusters for multimorbidity.

We examined whether social isolation and loneliness predict acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and stroke among those with no history of AMI or stroke. We also examined the extent to which these associations are explained by known risk factors or pre-existing chronic conditions. Participants were 479,054 individuals from the UK Biobank.

Multimorbidity is associated with higher mortality, but the relationship with cancer and cardiovascular mortality is unclear. The influence of demographics and type of condition on the relationship of multimorbidy with mortality remains unknown. We examine the relationship between multim orbidity and cause of mortality and the impact of demographic factors on this relationship.

People with higher cognitive ability tend to behave in a healthier fashion as regards risk factors for lower respiratory tract infection. There is evidence that they have a lower risk of dying from respiratory disease as a whole.

It is traditional to use data on the underlying cause of death on death certificates. We found associations with known risk factors were essentially the same. This finding has implications when studying risk factors for rare causes of death.

UK Biobank is unusual in that only 6% of people invited to take part in its initial survey agreed to do so. The low response rate has led to debate as to whether findings of links between risk factors and disease are likely to be generalizable.

Using Mendelian randomization, the researchers analyzed genetic variants that predict HbA1c levels and their associations with systolic and diastolic blood pressure. The researchers applied the usual selection criteria for participants in genetic studies, such as including only participants of genetically verified white British descent. The positive association was clearer when invalid genetic instruments were excluded.

Associations between cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors and the biventricular geometry of the right ventricle (RV) and left ventricles (LV) have been difficult to assess. We sought to quantify reference RV morphology as well as bivocentular variations associated with common cardiovascular risk factors. A biv centrifugal shape atlas was automatically constructed using contours and landmarks from 4329 UK Biobank cardiovascular magnetic resonance studies.

Urinary sodium excretion correlates with elevated blood pressure in subjects at low cardiovascular risk. No pattern of increased cardiovascular disease, heart failure, or mortality risk was demonstrated with either high or low sodium intake. Hypertension is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease.

Total cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) measurements are central to cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk assessment. There is continuing debate around the utility of other lipids for risk prediction.

UK Biobank is a prospective study of half a million subjects, almost all aged 40-69 years. 14,285 subjects were diagnosed with cancer during a median of 5.1 years of follow-up. A healthy lifestyle based on all five behaviours was associated with a reduction of about one-third in incident cancer.

Machine learning was used to identify risk factors for incident heart failure. Leg bioimpedance was identified as a new marker which was further explored in confirmatory analyses.

Study of association between genetic variants in PCSK9 and phenotypes across the spectrum of human disease. Uses UK Biobank data for discovery and replication of findings.

Using a continuous exposure variable that is measured with random error in a univariable linear regression model leads to regression dilution bias. A repeatability sub-study, where a sample of study participants have their data measured again, can be used to correct for this bias. It is important to perform a sample size calculation for such a sub- study to ensure that correction factors can be estimated with sufficient precision.

Arterial stiffness index (ASI) is a non-invasive measure of arterial stiffness using infra-red finger sensors (photoplethysmography) ASI is a well-suited measure for large populations as it is relatively inexpensive to perform.

Heart rate (HR) responds to exercise by increasing during exercise and recovering after exercise. HR is an important predictor of mortality that researchers believe is modulated by the autonomic nervous system. The mechanistic basis underlying inter-individual differences has yet to be explained.

 driving is a common type of sedentary behaviour; an independent risk factor for poor health. Study explores whether driving is also associated with other unhealthy lifestyle factors.

Vitamin D deficiency (serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D 60 years), and those living outside of Greater London (OR=0.53 to 0.77), with borderline trends for a lower body mass index, higher oily fish intake and higher household income.

This work investigates whether genetic makeup moderates the effects of education on health. The additional schooling affected body size, lung function, and blood pressure in middle age. The improvements in body size and lung function were larger for individuals with high genetic predisposition to obesity.

Graph representations are commonly used to model structural or functional connectivity between a set of brain regions. Most existing methods fail to accommodate the graph structure. We propose to learn a graph similarity metric using a siamese graph convolutional neural network (s-GCN) in a supervised setting.

We have found no evidence that maternal circulating 25(OH)D affects offspring birth weight. We also used genetic variants for serum Calcium (from the O Seaghdha et al 2013 GWAS) to perform Mendelian Randomisation.

A number of open questions in human evolutionary genetics would become tractable if we were able to directly measure evolutionary fitness. We found only a few common variants with large effects on age-specific mortality: tagging the APOE &#949;4 allele and near CHRNA3.

Gene-set analysis provides insight into which functional and biological properties of genes are aetiologically relevant for a particular phenotype. We applied our approach to blood pressure phenotypes in the UK Biobank data. We confirm and further refine several associations with multiple processes involved in heart and blood vessel formation.

Intelligence is highly heritable1 and a major determinant of human health and well-being. Recent genome-wide meta-analyses have identified 24 genomic loci linked to variation in intelligence. Here, we present a large-scale genetic association study of intelligence (n = 269,867)

Multi-trait analysis of GWAS (MTAG) is a method for joint analysis of summary statistics from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of different traits. MTAG increases the number of associated loci to 64, 37, and 49, respectively.

 Observational and Mendelian Randomization analyses of urinary biomarkers in the UK Biobank. In observational analyses, urinary sodium and potassium ratio showed significant inverse associations with atrial fibrillation, coronary artery disease, ischemic stroke,  lipid-lowering medication, and T2D. In contrast, urine albumin adjusted for creatinine showed significant positive associations with heart failure and hemorrhagic stroke.

Study explores contribution of anthropometric and reproductive factors in UK females developing BC. Data from the UK Biobank prospective study of 273,467 UK females were analyzed. Increase in age, height, having low BMI, low waist to hip ratio, first degree family history of BC, early menarche age, nulliparous, late age at first live birth, and high reproductive interval index were all significantly associated with an increased risk of BC.

The use of cannabis has previously been linked to both depression and self-harm. The role of genetics in this relationship is unclear. This study aimed to test for evidence of genetic associations. We found that in UK Biobank, cannabis use is associated with an increased likelihood of depression.

Study examined associations of current and lifetime night shift work exposure with type 2 diabetes risk. Compared with day workers, all current night shift workers were at higher multivariable-adjusted odds. Working more night shifts per month was associated with higher type 2 Diabetes odds.

Timmers et al. used genetic data from UK Biobank and other European cohorts alongside information on their parents lifespans to pinpoint DNA regions. They identified 12 such regions, of which five were new and had not been linked to lifespan before.

There is clear evidence that smoking lowers weight. It is possible that individuals with higher body mass index (BMI) smoke in order to lose or maintain their weight. The relationship is likely to be complex due to opposing effects on behaviour and metabolism.

Hair colour within European populations is a complex genetic trait. MC1R variants are the principal genetic cause of red hair colour, but with variable penetrance. Blonde hair is associated with over 200 genetic variants. Many of the associated genes are involved in hair growth or texture.

Physical inactivity is a highly modifiable risk factor for the development of osteoporosis. There is a lack of research that has precisely and objectively meaured physical activity (PA) relevant to bone. This study examined whether a more precise measure of PA relelvant to bone was associated with meaures of bone health.

Birth weight variation is influenced by fetal and maternal genetic and non-genetic factors. In expanded genome-wide association analyses, we identified 190 independent association signals. Using maternal birth weight-lowering genotypes to proxy for an adverse intrauterine environment provided no evidence.

Male pattern baldness (MPB) is a sex-limited, age-related, complex trait. We study MPB genetics in 205,327 European males from the UK Biobank. MPB is strongly heritable and polygenic. Correlations with reproductive traits imply an effect on fitness.

More research is needed on the safety of diuretics in routine care. Physicians and pharmacists are advised to clarify additional laxative use in users of non-potassium-sparing diuretic.

Previous studies have mostly used body mass index (BMI) as the main exposure of interest. Whether more precise measures of body fat, such as body fat percentage and fat mass estimated by bioimpedance analyses, are better indicators of risk than BMI is unknown.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) has been the subject of many neuroimaging case-control classification studies. Although some studies report accuracies &#8805;80%, most have investigated relatively small samples of clinically-ascertained, currently symptomatic cases. We here first aimed to replicate previously reported classification accuracies in a small, well-phenotyped community-based group of current MDD cases.

Previous studies have found common genetic factors that influence educational achievement, cognitive performance and total brain volume (i.e., brain size) Here, we investigate the shared genetic basis between educational attainment and fine-grained cerebral cortical morphological features. We associate this genetic variation with a related aspect of cognitive ability.

Study looked at 86,759 middle- to older-aged adults from the UK Biobank general population cohort. Small but consistent negative associations between air pollutant exposure and baseline cognitive performance. Follow-up analyses of cognitive change scores did not show evidence of associations.

 Associations between driving and physical-activity (PA) intensities are unclear, particularly among older adults. We studied 90 810 UK Biobank participants (56.1 +/- 7.8 years) Driving status, specific travel modes (non-work travel; commuting to/from work) and covariates were assessed by questionnaire. PA was assessed over 7 days by wrist-worn accelerometers (2013-15)

Identifying genes that contribute to the variability in brain regions involved in language processing may shed light on the evolution of brain structures essential to the emergence of language in Homo sapiens. The superior temporal asymmetrical pit (STAP), which is not observed in chimpanzees, represents an ideal phenotype to investigate the genetic variations that support human communication.

The Human Pain Genetics Database (HPGDB) is a comprehensive variant-focused inventory of genetic contributors to human pain. After curation, the HPGDB currently includes 294 studies reporting associations between 434 distinct genetic variants and various pain phenotypes.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified thousands of loci that are robustly associated with complex diseases. The use of linear mixed model (LMM) methodology for GWAS is becoming more prevalent due to its ability to control for population structure and cryptic relatedness.

Comorbidity patterns have become a major source of information to explore shared mechanisms of pathogenesis between disorders. In hypothesis-free exploration of comorbid conditions, disease-disease networks are usually identified by pairwise methods. We used a subset of the UK Biobank Resource, a cross-sectional dataset including 247 diseases.

Overweight and obesity are increasing worldwide. To help assess their relevance to mortality in different populations we conducted individual-participant data meta-analyses of prospective studies of body-mass index (BMI) The associations of both overweight and obesity with higher all-cause mortality were broadly consistent in four continents.

Major depression is a debilitating psychiatric illness that is typically associated with low mood and anhedonia. Depression has a heritable component that has remained difficult to elucidate with current sample sizes due to the polygenic nature of the disorder. We identified 102 independent variants, 269 genes, and 15 genesets associated with depression.

The problem drinking is genetically correlated with psychopathology. Alcohol consumption shares a genetic profile with a more favourable health profile. The last 7 questions of the AUDIT questionnaire are important to detect genetic variation which is specific to problem drinking. These items should be retained when attempting to uncover the genetic basis of alcohol use disorders.

People carrying the protective TYK2 variant were no more likely to have serious infections or to develop cancer than people without the variant. This suggests TYK 2 as a potential therapeutic target with few side effects.

Major depressive disorder is a result of the complex interplay between a large number of environmental and genetic factors. The primary aim of this work was to create a Bayesian dependency map of environmental factors of depression.

4.1% of the variation in the mate height choice is determined by a person's own genotype, as expected in a model where one's height determines the choice of mate height. The genotype of an individual predicts their partners' height in an independent dataset of 15,437 individuals with 13 % accuracy, which is 64 % of the theoretical maximum achievable with a heritability of 0.041.

A positive relationship between brain volume and intelligence has been suspected since the 19th century. This claim is controversial because of concerns about publication bias and the lack of systematic control for critical confounding factors (e.g., height, population structure) We conducted a preregistered study of the relationship. using a new sample of adults from the United Kingdom.

A large dataset of about 32,000 subjects scanned from neck to knee and aged 44-82 years from the UK Biobank study was used for a machine-based analysis. We trained a convolutional neural network based on the VGG16 architecture to predict the age of a given subject.

Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of height and body mass index (BMI) have led to the discovery of nearly independent single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with these traits. We identified 3290 and 941 near-independent SNPs associated with height and BMI, respectively. Overall, our combined GWAS meta-analysis reaches N &#8764;700000 individuals.

Physical inactivity is associated with an increased risk of major chronic diseases. We compared the physical activity of those with chronic diseases to healthy individuals. Participants in every chronic-disease subgroup undertook less physical activity than those without chronic disease.

We present a new software package with a library of standardised tractography protocols devised for the robust automated extraction of white matter tracts both in the human and the macaque brain. Using in vivo data from the Human Connectome Project (HCP) and the UK Biobank, we obtain white matter atlases for both species.

Age-related hearing impairment (ARHI) is the most common sensory impairment in the aging population. A third of individuals are affected by disabling hearing loss by the age of 65. It causes social isolation and depression and has recently been identified as a risk factor for dementia.

Health risk factors such as body mass index (BMI) and serum cholesterol are associated with many common diseases. It often remains unclear whether the risk factors are cause or consequence of disease, or whether the associations are the result of confounding. We identify a number of causal associations.

The macula, located near the center of the retina in the human eye, is responsible for providing critical functions, such as central, sharp vision. Structural changes in the macula are associated with many ocular diseases, including age-related macular degeneration and glaucoma. Although macular thickness is a highly heritable trait, there are no prior reported genome-wide association studies (GWASs) of it.

Risk models based on easily obtainable data have relatively good discrimination in a UK population. Modelling studies are now required to estimate the potential health benefits and cost-effectiveness of implementing stratified risk-based CRC screening.

Clonally expanded blood cells that contain somatic mutations (clonal haematopoiesis) are commonly acquired with age and increase the risk of blood cancer. The sources of selective advantage that drive the expansion of most clones remain unknown. We analysed genotyping data from the blood-derived DNA of 482,789 participants from the UK Biobank.

 Increased levels of the urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR) are associated with higher risk of kidney disease progression and cardiovascular events. Here, we conduct trans-ethnic and European-ancestry specific meta-analyses of genome-wide association studies of UACR. Results generate a priority list of genes and pathways to reduce albuminuria.

Elevated serum urate levels cause gout and correlate with cardiometabolic diseases via poorly understood mechanisms. We identified 183 loci (147 previously unknown) that improve the prediction of gout in an independent cohort of 334,880 individuals. Transcriptional coregulation within and across organs may be a general mechanism underlying the observed pleiotropy.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is responsible for a public health burden with multi-systemic complications. A genetic risk score for lower eGFR was associated with clinically diagnosed CKD in 452,264 independent individuals. Fine-mapping highlighted missense driver variants in 11 genes and kidney-specific regulatory variants. These results provide a comprehensive priority list of molecular targets for translational research.

Disease variants identified by genome-wide association studies (GWAS) tend to overlap with expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) It remains unclear whether this overlap is driven by gene expression levels 'mediating' genetic effects on disease. Here, we introduce a new method, mediated expression score regression (MESC), to estimate disease heritability.

The hippocampus is a heterogeneous structure, comprising histologically distinguishable subfields. These subfields are differentially involved in memory consolidation, spatial navigation and pattern separation. Complex functions often impaired in individuals with brain disorders characterized by reduced hippocampal volume, including Alzheimer s disease and schizophrenia.

Using structural MRI data from 45,615 individuals aged 3 96 years, we demonstrate distinct patterns of apparent brain aging in several brain disorders. We also reveal genetic pleiotropy between apparent brain Aging in healthy individuals and common brain Disorders. Common risk factors for psychiatric and other brain disorders are likely to converge on biological pathways.

The grey and white matter volumes are known to reduce with age. We found that the heritability of the sulcal opening ranges from 15 to 45% (SE = 4.8%). We identified 4 new loci that contribute to this opening, including one that also affects the sulci grey matter thickness.

Few large-scale population-level cardiac imaging studies have been conducted. We present and evaluate a cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) image analysis pipeline that properly scales up and can provide a fully automatic analysis.

Multifactorial disease signatures provide unique insights into the architecture of complex disease populations. These insights can be used to better stratify patient groups, aiding the delivery of precision medicine.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating neurodegenerative condition with significant genetic heritability. Several genes have been implicated in the onset of AD with the apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene being the strongest single genetic risk loci. Evidence suggests that the effect of APOE alters with age during disease progression.

To further dissect the genetic architecture of colorectal cancer (CRC), we performed whole-genome sequencing of 1,439 cases and 720 controls. We discovered a strongly protective 0.3% frequency variant signal at CHD1. New signals implicate lower-frequency variants, Kr ppel-like factors, Hedgehog signaling, Hippo-YAP signaling and long noncoding RNAs.

Researchers identified 153 new loci associated with heel bone mineral density. They also conducted in vivo studies that implicated GPC6 and several other genes in osteoporosis.

Neuroticism is a relatively stable personality trait characterized by negative emotionality. Increased neuroticism is associated with poorer mental and physical health. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of neuroticism have identified up to 11 associated genetic loci.

Fine-mapping aims to identify causal variants impacting complex traits. We propose PolyFun, a computationally scalable framework to improve fine- mapping accuracy. PolyFun prioritizes variants for functional follow-up and provides insights into complex trait architectures.

Deep-learning models for the automated measurement of retinal vessel calibre in retinal photographs. The models performed comparably to or better than expert graders in associations of measurements with cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors.

The melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) is a G protein-coupled receptor whose disruption causes obesity. We functionally characterized 61 MC4R variants identified in 0.5 million people from UK Biobank and examined their associations with body mass index (BMI) and obesity-related cardiometabolic diseases. We found that the maximal efficacy of &#946;-arrestin recruitment to MC4r, rather than canonical G&#945; s -mediated cyclic adenosine-monophosphate production, explained 88% of the variance in the association with BMI.

Autosomal variants have successfully been associated with trait neuroticism in genome-wide analysis of adequately powered samples. Most of the lead neuroticism-related X chromosome variants were located in intergenic regions. Involvement of HS6ST2, previously associated with sociability behaviour in the dog, was supported by single SNP and gene-based tests.

The genetic risk for schizophrenia was not randomly distributed across the UK. Risk alleles were more common in urban/densely populated areas, consistent with the reporter higher rates of schizophrenia observed in urban area.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of psychological traits are generally conducted on (dichotomized) sums of items or symptoms. We conduct large-scale GWAS on 12 neuroticism items and observe notable and replicable variation in genetic signal between items. We conclude that the items used to measure neuroticism are genetically heterogeneous.

Low back pain (LBP) is a common disabling condition. Lumbar disc degeneration (LDD) may be a contributing factor for LBP. Modic change (MC), a distinct phenotype of LDD, is strongly associated with LBP and has heritability around 30%. Our objective was to identify genetic loci associated with MC using a genome-wide meta-analysis.

Chronic musculoskeletal pain affects all aspects of human life. The mechanisms of its genetic control remain poorly understood. Here, we apply principal component analysis to reduce phenotype heterogeneity of pain at four locations.

Body fat accumulation is associated with back pain, but a causal association is unclear. We hypothesized that BMI would have causal effects on back pain. We conducted a two-sample Mendelian randomization study to assess the causal effect of body mass index (BMI) on the outcomes of back pain and chronic back pain (duration > 3 months)

Back pain (BP) is a common condition of major social importance and poorly understood pathogenesis. We identified and replicated 3 BP-associated loci, including one novel region implicating SPOCK2/CHST3 genes. We provide evidence for pleiotropic effects of genetic factors underlying BP, height, and intervertebral disk problems.

Back pain is the #1 cause of years lived with disability worldwide. Little is known regarding the biology underlying this symptom. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) meta-analysis of chronic back pain (CBP)

Study finds that adding genetic information improves the performance of established tools for calculating disease risk. Researchers used data from UK Biobank both to build a better disease risk model and to evaluate its effectiveness.

A new integrated risk tool combines clinical and polygenic risk scores. Prediction is significantly enhanced in multiple ethnicities and ancestries. This is the first positive cross-ethnicity cross-ancestry validation of such a tool.

Back pain (BP) is a common condition of major social importance and poorly understood pathogenesis. Intervertebral lumbar disc degeneration in all its guises is one of the major biological risk factors for BP. Previously, we identified the locus at 8q24.21 associated with chronic BP, which has been found elsewhere associated with sciatica after surgery.

Lipoprotein(a) is an atherogenic low-density lipoprotein like particle and circulating levels are largely determined by genetics. Patients with familial hypercholesterolemia, an autosomal dominant genetic disorder, have been observed to have elevated levels of lipop protein(a), but it remains unclear why. In this cohort study of the UK Biobank, levels were not statistically different between individuals with and without a familialhypercholesterolesmia-associated variant.

Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a novel coronavirus strain disease caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronav virus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) The disease is highly transmissible and severe disease including viral sepsis has been reported in up to 16% of hospitalized cases. The admission characteristics associated with increased odds of hospital mortality include severe hypoxia, low platelet count and elevated bilirubin.

As many as 20% of individuals who test positive for COVID-19 develop severe symptoms that can require hospitalization. These symptoms include low platelet count, severe hypoxia, increased inflammatory cytokines and reduced glomerular filtration rate. Severe CO VID-19 is associated with several chronic co-morbidities, including cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus.

SBayesR is a Bayesian multiple regression model that uses summary statistics from genome-wide association studies. In simulation and cross-validation using 12 real traits and 1.1 million variants on 350,000 individuals from the UK Biobank, it improves prediction accuracy.

The CMO test integrates genetically regulated DNA methylation and enhancer-target gene pairs with genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary results. By analyzing to date the largest AD GWAS of 71,880 cases and 383,378 controls, CMO identified six novel loci for AD.

Metabolic syndrome (MetS) and its components may link to pancreatic cancer risk. Current epidemiological evidence is limited, and the potential mechanisms underlying the associations remain unclear. To investigate this, we carried out a prospective cohort study of 474 929 participants without a diagnosis of cancer based on UK Biobank dataset.

Serum uric acid was measured at baseline and the incidence and mortality of kidney cancer was determined through contact with the cancer and death registry. People with the highest quartile had a 45% increased risk of kidney. cancer compared to those with the lowest uri acid quartile.

UK Biobank studied 230&#x2009;390 commuters (52.1% women; mean age 52.4 years) Cyclists to work had a lower risk of cardiovascular disease, cancer, and death than those who did not. Longer cycling distances during commuting were associated with a higher risk of injury.

A DL algorithm was trained using a retrospective dataset of 86,618 images. It was assessed for glaucomatous ONH features and referable GON (defined as ONH appearance worrisome enough to justify referral for comprehensive examination)

Adversity experiences (AEs) are major risk factors for psychiatric illness. Evidence suggests that adversity-related changes in brain structure enhance this vulnerability. To achieve greater understanding of the underlying biological pathways, increased convergence among findings is needed.

Air pollution has consistently been associated with cardiometabolic outcomes, but associations with obesity have only been recently reported. We used the UK Biobank, a large, prospective cohort study in the United Kingdom, to explore the relationship between air pollution and adiposity. All air pollution measures except IDTR were positively associated with at least one continuous measure of adiposity at enrollment.

Machine learning-based phenotyping in genetic association analysis is misclassification problem. To evaluate chances and challenges, we performed a GWAS based on automatically classified age-related macular degeneration (AMD) in UK Biobank. We demonstrate our MLA guards against bias and artifacts in simulation studies.

It is known that vascular disease risk factors, such as smoking or diabetes, are related to cognitive performance. This paper investigates whether measurements of brain health derived from the MRI data, namely measures of how well the various areas of the brain are connected to each other, mediate the relationship between vascular risk factors and cognition.

We used data from the UK Biobank to combine polygenic risk scores (PRS) for 13 diseases and 12 mortality risk factors into a sex-specific composite PRS. These cPRS were moderately associated with all-cause mortality. These associations were substantially attenuated after adjusting for non-genetic mortality Risk factors measured at study entry.

We evaluated how robust signals of polygenic adaptation are to the choice of GWAS cohort used to identify associated variants. We show that meta analysis creates overdispersion across populations which appears likes signs of polygenetic seleciton.

This study presents an automated framework for tissue characterisation from native shortened modified Look-Locker inversion recovery ShMOLLI T1 mapping at 1.5 T using a Probabilistic Hierarchical Segmentation (PHiSeg) network. We use the uncertainty information provided by the PHiSeg network in a novel automated quality control (QC) step to identify uncertain T1 values.

This study aims to evaluate the causal association of blood pressure (BP) with cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) Two-sample Mendelian randomization was performed using a large genome-wide association study (n=299&#x2009;024) and the UK Biobank cohort. Genetically predicted BP was significantly positively associated with total CVD.

Genotype-by-environment interaction (GEI) is a fundamental component in understanding complex trait variation. It remains challenging to identify genetic variants with GEI effects in humans largely because of the small effect sizes and the difficulty of monitoring environmental fluctuations. Here, we demonstrate that GEI can be inferred from genetic variants associated with phenotypic variability in a large sample.

Applying deep learning in population genomics is challenging because of computational issues and lack of interpretable models. We propose GenNet, a novel open-source deep learning framework for predicting phenotypes from genetic variants. In this framework, interpretable and memory-efficient neural network architectures are constructed.

Few studies have explored the interplay between monogenic and polygenic risk. We study 80,928 individuals to examine whether polygenic background can modify penetrance of disease in tier 1 genomic conditions. Among carriers of a monogenic risk variant, we estimate substantial gradients in disease risk.

Coffee consumption might have a beneficial effect on hearing function because of the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties of some of its compounds. No previous longitudinal study has assessed the association between coffee consumption and the risk of hearing impairment.

In most human societies, there are taboos and laws banning mating between first- and second-degree relatives. But actual prevalence and effects on health and fitness are poorly quantified. Here, we leverage a large observational study of ~450,000 participants of European ancestry from the UK Biobank to quantify extreme inbreeding.

Deciphering the shared genetic basis of distinct cancers has the potential to elucidate carcinogenic mechanisms and inform broadly applicable risk assessment efforts. We undertake genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and comprehensive evaluations of heritability and pleiotropy across 18 cancer types.

There is evidence that mental disorders are more frequently reported among emergency services personnel due to the stressful nature of the job in combination with a high exposure to traumatic events. Most of this research is based on occupational surveys that may lead to a contextual bias in the prevalence estimates or lack an adequate comparison group.

Study identified 3 loci that reached genome-wide statistical significance. TIMP2, Col5A1, TGFBR1, and TNC genes were found to have significantly upregulated tissue expression in cases vs. controls supporting a biologic role in tearing for these genes. Expression of the THSD7A gene was significantly downregulated in rotator cuff tears.

Among 4855 participants tested for SARS-CoV-2 in hospital, 839 were positive and of these 189 died from COVID-19. BMI was more strongly related to test positivity and death in non-whites (predominantly South Asians and Afro-Caribbeans), compared with whites. If future studies confirm causality, lifestyle interventions to improve adiposity status may be important.

Anhedonia is a core symptom of several psychiatric disorders but its biological underpinnings are poorly understood. We performed a genome-wide association study of state anhedonia in 375,275 UK Biobank participants and assessed for genetic correlation. Strong positive genetic correlations were found between anhedoni and major depressive disorder, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Polygenic risk for anhedonian was associated with poorer brain white matter integrity, smaller total grey matter volume, and smaller volumes of brain regions linked to reward and pleasure.

Excretion of albumin in urine is associated with the development of multiple cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. Whether pathways leading to albuminuria are causal for cardiometabolic diseases is unclear. We addressed this question using a Mendelian randomization framework in the UK Biobank, a large population-based cohort.

Telomeres are DNA-protein structures at the ends of chromosomes essential in maintaining chromosomal stability. Observational studies have identified associations between telomeres and elevated cancer risk, including hematologic malignancies. Biologic mechanisms relating telomere length to cancer etiology remain unclear.

IBDkin is a software package written in C for estimating kinship coefficients from identity by descent (IBD) segments. We use IBDkin to estimate kinship coefficient for 7.95 billion pairs of individuals in the UK Biobank who share at least one detected IBD segment with length &#8805; 4 cM.

 Pharmacogenetics studies the influence of genetic variation on drug response. We analyzed PGx allele and phenotype frequencies for 487,409 participants in the UK Biobank, the largest PGx study to date. Non-European populations carry a greater frequency of variants that are predicted to be functionally deleterious.

Urinary sodium and potassium excretion are associated with blood pressure (BP) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) The exact biological link between these traits is yet to be elucidated. Here, we identify 50 loci for sodium and 13 forassium excretion in a large-scale genome-wide association study.

Vitamin D deficiency is a candidate risk factor for a range of adverse health outcomes. In a genome-wide association study of 25 hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) concentration in 417,580 Europeans we identify 143 independent loci.

Study evaluated the effect of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), the target of metformin, on risk of cardiovascular disease and cancer. Genetically predicted reduction in HbA1c (%) instrumented by AMPK variants was associated with a 61% reduction in risk of type 2 diabetes. Results were similar using median or quartiles of AMPK score.

Hippocampal volume is an important biomarker of Alzheimer's disease (AD) Genetic risk of AD is associated with hippocampal atrophy. The hippocampus is not a uniform structure and has a number of subfields. Age was negatively associated with all the hippocampal subfield volumes and females had smaller volumes than men.

Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative condition where the underlying etiology is still unclear. Investigating the potential influence of apolipoprotein E (APOE), a major genetic risk factor, on common blood biomarkers could provide a greater understanding of the mechanisms of AD and dementia risk.

This paper looks at whether higher body mass index and systolic blood pressure are associated with worse cognitive abilities. We show associations between these factors, and in particular that a range of brain structural features mediate the link.

PCSK9 inhibitors are an effective medication for lowering low-density lipoprotein levels. Use has been associated with lower risk of poor cardiometabolic health. Some questions remain from trial data, however, relating to whether their use may have cognitive side-effects.

We calibrated 14 self-reported behavioural variables from the UK Biobank main cohort using the wrist accelerometry sub-cohort. We used published equations to estimate physical activity energy expenditure (PAEESR) Cox regression was used to estimate associations between PAEESr and fatal and non-fatal outcomes including all-cause, cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases and cancers.

We consider the problem of performing an association test between functional data and scalar variables. We propose a functional projection regression model and an associated global test statistic. An optimal functional projection direction is selected to maximize signal-to-noise ratio with ridge penalty.

Opioids have, at most, small benefits for non-cancer pain in the medium and long-term but there is good evidence that they cause harm. The current study describes the characteristics and clinical status of people taking regular opioids in Great Britain and determines whether use is associated with mortality risk.

Brain genetics is an active research area. The degree to which genetic variants impact variations in brain structure and function remains largely unknown. We examined the heritability of regional brain volumes captured by single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in UK Biobank. We found that common genetic variants can explain up to 80% of their variabilities.

Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and genome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data from 17,706 UK Biobank participants offer the opportunity to identify novel genetic variants of WM tracts. We found that DTI parameters are substantially heritable for all WM tracts (mean heritability 48.7%). We observed a highly polygenic architecture of genetic influence across the genome.

Volumetric variations of the human brain are heritable and are associated with many brain-related complex traits. We performed genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of 101 brain volumetric phenotypes using the UK Biobank sample including 19,629 participants. GWAS identified 365 independent genetic variants exceeding a significance threshold of 4.9 × 10-10.

Poor socio-economic status has been reported in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients. We aimed to investigate the causal effects of education attainment on the risk of CKD. Study was an observational cohort study including Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis.

Asthma is a chronic and genetically complex respiratory disease that affects over 300 million people worldwide. Here, we report a genome-wide analysis for asthma using data from the UK Biobank and the Trans-National Asthma Genetic Consortium. We identify 66 previously unknown asthma loci.

While most patients with myocardial infarction (MI) have underlying coronary atherosclerosis, not all patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) develop MI. We carried out a genome-wide association study for MI in the UK Biobank. Eight novel regions were identified for MI at the genome wide significance level, of which effect sizes at six loci were more robust for MI than for CAD without the presence of MI.

The link between metabolic syndrome and SARS-CoV-2 infection remains unclear. A 10 mg/dl increase in serum HDL-cholesterol or apolipoprotein A1 levels was associated with 10% reduced risk of infection. Individuals homozygous for apollipoprotein E4 alleles had a 2- to 3-fold higher risk.

Diabetes has shown to be a stronger risk factor for myocardial infarction (MI) in women than men. Whether sex differences exist across the glycemic spectrum is unknown. We investigated sex differences in the associations of diabetes status and glycated hemoglobin (HbA 1c ) with the risk of MI.

UK Biobank is a prospective population-based cohort study. 364,899 adults (51.6 % females, mean age 56.0 years) were included. The exposure variable was physical activity level derived from the International Physical Activity Questionnaire-Short Form.

Daily recreational screen time, particularly TV viewing, was associated with small increased risks of oesophago-gastric and colon cancer. Replacing 1-h/day of TV viewing with 1-H of moderate-intensity physical activity or walking was linked with lower risk of oropharyngeal, lung, breast and colorectal cancers. Findings were inconsistent for daily recreational computer use.

Prostate cancer is a highly heritable disease with large disparities in incidence rates across ancestry populations. Men of African ancestry were estimated to have a mean GRS that was 2.18-times higher (95% CI, 2.14-2.22) than men of European ancestry.

X-linked ichthyosis (XLI) is an uncommon dermatological condition resulting from a deficiency of the enzyme steroid sulfatase (STS) It is often caused by X-linked deletions spanning STS. Some medical comorbidities have been identified in XLI cases, but small samples of relatively young patients has limited this.

Quantitative genetics theory predicts that X-chromosome dosage compensation (DC) will have a detectable effect on the amount of genetic and therefore phenotypic trait variances at associated loci in males and females. We systematically examine the role of DC in humans in 20 complex traits in a sample of more than 450,000 individuals from the UK Biobank.

We examined associations between BMI and the number of formal physical activity (PA) facilities within 1 km of each individual's home. We found that the association between a greater number of local PA facilities and lower BMI was stronger among people with fewer urban green spaces in their neighbourhood. We conclude that formal PA facilities may buffer against a lack of informal, green resources for PA.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) of medication use may contribute to understanding of disease etiology. GWASs could generate new leads relevant for drug discovery and can be used to quantify future risk.

Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is an important cause of heart failure and the leading indication for heart transplantation. Many rare genetic variants have been associated with DCM, but common variant studies of the disease have yielded few associated loci. We report a genome-wide association study of cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-derived left ventricular measurements in 36,041 UK Biobank participants.

Ivabradine is a heart rate lowering drug with protective effects on heart failure despite increasing the risk of atrial fibrillation. In patients with coronary artery disease without heart failure, the drug does not protect against major cardiovascular adverse events prompting questions about the ability of genetics to have predicted those effects. This study evaluates the effect of a variant in HCN4 on safety and efficacy endpoints.

We construct risk predictors using polygenic scores (PGS) computed from common Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) for a number of complex disease conditions. We obtain values for the area under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUC) in the range of 0.58-0.71 using SNP data alone. Substantially higher predictor AUCs are obtained when incorporating additional variables such as age and sex.

Genomic prediction of complex human traits and disease risks has advanced considerably in recent years. Using data from the UK Biobank, predictors have been constructed using penalized algorithms that favor sparsity. The state of these SNPs cannot be determined from exome-sequencing data.

We test 26 polygenic predictors using tens of thousands of genetic siblings from the UK Biobank. We compare validation results obtained using non-sibling subjects to those obtained among siblings. We find that typically most of the predictive power persists in between-s sibling designs.

We construct genomic predictors for heritable but extremely complex human quantitative traits (height, heel bone density, and educational attainment) The constructed predictors explain, respectively, &#8764;40, 20, and 9% of total variance for the three traits. The proportion of variance explained for height is comparable to the estimated common SNP heritability from genome-wide complex trait analysis.

Physical activity (PA) levels between individuals with and without cancer. Current cancer, cancer survivor and cancer-free groups were identified from the UK Biobank. Participants in the two cancer groups had fewer minutes in moderate-to-vigorous PA per day.

Multiple studies have reported genetic associations with prognostic outcomes of urinary bladder cancer. We have used SNPTEST software to replicate previously reported associations. Using our algorithm, we have identified 618 recurrence and 58 UBC progression events. In total, there were 209 deaths (106 UBC-specific)

 Mutations in UGT1A gene have been associated with the development and prognosis of urinary bladder cancer (UBC) We investigated the potential effect of mild hyperbilirubinemia on UBC risk. No effects were observed for events of UBC recurrence, progression, or survival.

Fish oil supplementation is widely used for reducing serum triglycerides (TAGs) but has mixed effects on other circulating cardiovascular biomarkers. Many genetic polymorphisms have been associated with blood lipids, including high- and low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C, LDL-C), total cholesterol, and TAGs. Here, the gene-diet interaction effects of fish oil supplementation on these lipids were analyzed in a discovery cohort of up to 73,962 UK Biobank participants.

It is commonly assumed that high oestradiol levels in women are cardioprotective. We assessed the association between ostradiol and the risk of incident myocardial infarction (MI) in women. After a mean follow-up of 9 years, 2206 incidents of MI had been recorded.

Moderately raised serum bilirubin levels are associated with lower rates of lung cancer, particularly among smokers. It is not known whether these relationships reflect antioxidant properties or residual confounding. This study aimed to investigate potential causal relationships between serum total bilirubsin and lung cancer incidence using Mendelian randomisation.

Obesity and metabolic syndrome (MetS) appear in clusters and are both associated with an increased risk of cancer. It remains unknown whether obesity status with or without MetS increases the risk of site-specific cancers. We used data derived from 390,575 individuals (37-73 years old) from the UK Biobank.

Left ventricular (LV) mass and volume are important indicators of clinical and pre-clinical disease processes. Much of the shape information present in modern imaging examinations is currently ignored. We compared two independent LV atlases using MRI scans of 4547 UK Biobank participants. The strength of associations between atlas principal components and cardiovascular risk factors were quantified.

Asthma hospitalizations account for a high proportion of asthma-related healthcare costs. In 2016, asthma affected 9.3% of people and caused ~93,000 hospitalizations in the United Kingdom (U.K.)

The recent availability of large-scale neuroimaging cohorts facilitates deeper characterisation of the relationship between phenotypic and brain architecture variation in humans. Here, we investigate the association (previously coined morphometricity) of a phenotype with all 652,283 measures of cortical and subcortical morphology in a large data set from the UK Biobank and Human Connectome Project.

Polygenic indexes (PGIs) are DNA-based predictors. Their value for research in many scientific disciplines is growing rapidly. A PGI can be understood as an unbiased but noisy measure of a latent variable. Regressions in which the true regressor is this factor but the PGI is used as its proxy therefore suffer from errors-in-variables bias.

Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) is positively associated with the risks of colorectal, breast, and prostate cancer. But evidence for other less common cancers is limited. In this study, we investigated associations between serum IGF-I concentrations and incidence of lesscommon cancers in the UK Biobank study.

Red and processed meat have been consistently associated with colorectal cancer risk. Evidence for other cancer sites and for poultry intake is limited. We analyzed data from 474 996 participants (54% women) in UK Biobank.

Less than 0.1% of the NDNS sample adhere to all nine EWG recommendations and 30.6% adhere to at least five recommendations. Compared with very low adherence, intermediate-to-high adherence was associated with a reduced risk of mortality. Increased adherence to the recommendation on red and processed meat consumption was. associated with the largest decrease in environmental footprints.

Artificial intelligence (AI) can identify the sex of an individual from color fundus photographs (CFPs) However, the mechanism(s) involved in this identification has not been determined. This study was conducted to determine the information in CFPs that can be used to determine sex.

Using UK Biobank data, we tested the association of 391 genes known to influence lung development with FVC and FEV 1 /FVC. Of the 55 genes, 53 fell into four biological categories whose function is to regulate organ size and cell integrity.

Rare genetic variants in LDLR, APOB and PCSK9 are known causes of familial hypercholesterolaemia. Rare variants in other genes will also have effects on hyperlipidaemia risk. Such genes remain to be identified.

Indirect genetic effects are environmental factors associated with human disease and complex trait variation. Here, we study indirect genetic effects in 80,889 human couples of European ancestry for 105 complex traits.

Red blood cell transfusion and erythropoiesis-stimulating agent administration are cornerstones of clinical practice. This study aims to identify RBC traits most relevant to venous thromboembolism (VTE) and assess their genetically predicted effects on VTE in the general population.

FastSMC is an IBD detection algorithm that combines a fast heuristic search with accurate coalescent-based likelihood calculations. We apply FastSMC to 487,409 UK Biobank samples and detect ~214 billion IBD segments transmitted by shared ancestors within the past 1500 years.

Vigorous physical activity (PA) in highly trained athletes has been associated with heightened left ventricular (LV) trabeculation extent. It has been hypothesised that LV trabECulation extent may participate in exercise-induced physiological cardiac remodelling. In a community-based general population cohort, there was no relationship at, or between, extremes, between PA and NC/C, suggesting that at typical general population PA levels, trab Ceculation extent is not influenced by PA changes.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in Parkinson's disease have increased the scope of biological knowledge about the disease. We aimed to use the largest aggregate of GWAS data to identify novel risk loci and gain further insight into the causes. We identified 90 independent genome-wide significant risk signals across 78 genomic regions, including 38 novel independent risk signals in 37 loci.

Previous studies have suggested that altered asymmetry of the planum temporale (PT) is associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. Shared genetic factors have been suggested to link PT asymmetry to these disorders. In a dataset of unrelated subjects from the general population, we found that PT volume asymmetry had a significant heritability of roughly 14%.

 kidney function does not feature in current CVD risk-prediction models. We tested three formulae for estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) to determine which was the most clinically informative. We show that eGFRcys is most strongly associated with CVD and mortality.

Few risk factors for rotator cuff disease (RCD) and corresponding treatment have been firmly established. The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between numerous risk factors and the incidence of surgery for RCD in a large cohort. The risk factors which were considered included age, sex, race, education, Townsend deprivation index, body mass index (BMI), occupational demands, and exposure to smoking.

The aim of this study was to compare and externally validate risk scores developed to predict incident colorectal cancer that include common genetic variants. We externally validated 23 risk models from a previous systematic review in 443,888 participants ages 37 to 73 from the UK Biobank cohort.

We used data from the UK Biobank, a large prospective study of middle-aged and older adults. Living with a spouse or partner was associated with substantially lower odds of lifetime depression. Amongst those not cohabiting, having any number of children was linked to higher odds of depression.

UK Biobank recruited > 500,000 participants, aged 37-73, between 2006 and 2010. Exposures were sociodemographic (age, sex, ethnicity, education, income and deprivation), psychosocial (loneliness and social isolation), lifestyle (smoking, alcohol intake, sleep duration, BMI, physical activity and stair climbing) and environmental (air pollution, noise and residential greenspace) factors. Low income, being male, neighbourhood deprivation, loneliness, social isolation, short or long sleep duration and low or high BMI and smoking were associated with poor health.

Hand preference is a conspicuous variation in human behaviour. Around 90% of people prefer to use the right hand for many tasks, and 10% the left hand. We used the large cohort of the UK biobank (~500,000 participants) to study possible relations between early life factors and adult hand preference.

An increased serum level of free testosterone was associated with lower odds of physician-diagnosed asthma and current wheeze in women and men. Higher serum free testosterone levels were also associated with higher lung function in men.

We trained a deep learning algorithm to predict refractive error from a total of 226,870 images. We validated it on 24,007 UK Biobank and 15,750 AREDS images. The algorithm had a mean absolute error (MAE) of 0.56 diopters.

Anaemia can be detected via machine-learning algorithms trained using retinal  fundus images, study participant metadata (including race or ethnicity, age, sex and  blood pressure) or the combination of both data types. In a validation dataset of 11,388 study participants from the UK Biobank, the metadata-only, fundus-image-only and combined models predicted haemoglobin  concentration (in g dl-1)

Deep learning can extract new knowledge from retinal fundus images. We predicted cardiovascular risk factors not previously thought to be present or quantifiable in retinal images. The models used anatomical features, such as the optic disc or blood vessels, to generate each prediction.

Sex differences have been shown in laboratory biomarkers, but the extent to which this is due to genetics is unknown. In this study, we infer sex-specific genetic parameters across 33 quantitative biomarker traits in 181,064 females and 156,135 males from the UK Biobank study. We find that the genetics of most biomarker trait are shared between males and females.

The UK Biobank is collecting extensive data on health-related characteristics of over half a million volunteers. The biological samples of blood and urine can provide valuable insight on kidney function.

This paper gives a brief overview of common non-invasive techniques for body composition analysis. It also reviews a body composition assessment method based on fat-referenced quantitative MRI. Earlier published studies of this method are summarized.

UK Biobank participants without baseline CVD or known diabetes were included. Associations of HbA1c with CVD was assessed using Cox models adjusting for classical risk factors.

Polygenic scores (PGS) have been widely used to predict disease risk using variants identified from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) To date, most GWAS have been conducted in populations of European ancestry, which limits the use of GWAS-derived PGS in non-European ancestry populations. Here, we derive a theoretical model of the relative accuracy (RA) of PGS across ancestries.

UK Biobank recruited 502,624 participants aged 37-73 years between 2006 and 2010. Baseline exposure data, including 25(OH)D concentration and ethnicity, were linked to test results. Vitamin D was associated with COVID-19 infection univariably, but not after adjustment for confounders.

25(OH)D concentration was associated with severe COVID-19 infection and mortality univariably. Vitamin D insufficiency or deficiency was not independently associated with either infection or linked mortality. Randomised trials are needed to prove a beneficial role for vitamin D.

The genome-wide association study (GWAS) has been widely used as an experimental design to detect associations between genetic variants and a phenotype. Two major confounding factors, population stratification and relatedness, could potentially lead to inflated GWAS test statistics and hence to spurious associations. Mixed linear model (MLM)-based approaches can be used to account for sample structure.

Evidence suggests that diabetes and glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels are associated with cancer risk. Previous studies have been limited by failure to adjust for cancer-specific risk factors, and failure to stratify by obesity.

Myeloid clonal hematopoiesis (CH) increased by 1.1-fold per annum in the UK Biobank cohort. 53% of myeloid CH cases were smokers compared to 44% of controls. ASXL1 loss of function mutations most strongly associated with current smoking status.

Cross-sectional analysis of 157,357 UK Biobank participants. Experience of four maltreatment types (physical/sexual/emotional/neglect) identified. People experiencing all four types of maltreatment were more likely to have poor self-rated health. Greater number of types of Maltreatment was associated with higher prevalence of combined physical/mental health LTCs.

Frailty is associated with older age and multimorbidity (two or more long-term conditions) Little is known about its prevalence or effects on mortality in younger populations. This paper aims to examine the association between frailty and mortality in a middle-aged and older aged population.

Anticholinergic burden (ACB) is associated with adverse outcomes in older people. ACB is less studied in middle-aged populations. Numerous scales exist to quantify ACB. We performed a longitudinal analysis of the UK Biobank community cohort.

To examine the association between the MTNR1B G risk allele, type 2 diabetes (T2D) and chronotype in the UK Biobank.

Common MTNR1B single nucleotide polymorphism associates with risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) Here, we examine the association between this gene variant and the risk of myocardial infarction (MCI)

Mendelian randomization is the use of genetic variants to assess the effect of intervening on a risk factor using observational data. We test for gene-gene interactions in the associations of variants with a modifiable risk factor. One genetic variant is treated as pharmacomimetic and the other as an effect modifier to find genetic subgroups of the population with different predicted response to treatment.

Cerebral small vessel disease is a major cause of stroke and dementia. Its genetic basis is incompletely understood. We perform a genetic study of three MRI markers of the disease in UK Biobank imaging data and other sources.

In December 2019, a coronavirus began infecting humans, causing a novel disease. This was first described in the Wuhan province of the People's Republic of China. To date, thousands of cases of COVID-19 have been reported in the United Kingdom.

Child maltreatment is associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD), but mediation pathways have not been fully elucidated. The aim of the current study was to determine and quantify the underlying pathways linking child maltreatment and CVD.

Measurement of lipoprotein(a) and/or LPA genetic risk score (GRS) have clinical utility in risk prediction of incident atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) Findings  In this cohort of 283 540 adults recruited by the UK Biobank, both measured lipop protein(a), and LPA GRS were associated with comparable risk of incident ASCVD events.

Deep learning models using ECG to infer cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR)-derived LV mass may improve LVH detection. LVM-AI-predicted LVH was associated with incident atrial fibrillation, myocardial infarction, heart failure, and ventricular arrhythmias.

Recent studies have suggested that a higher body mass index (BMI) and serum urate levels were associated with a lower risk of developing dementia. However, these reverse relationships remain controversial. We analyzed a cohort of 502 528 individuals derived from the UK Biobank that included people aged 37-73 years.

Evidence links the liver to development of colorectal cancer (CRC) It remains unknown how liver function may influence CRC risk in the general population. We conducted a prospective cohort study in the UK Biobank of 375 693 participants.

It remains unclear whether serum lipids influence colorectal cancer risk. We conducted a prospective cohort study of 380,087 adults aged 40-69 years in the UK Biobank. None of the lipid biomarkers was associated with the risk of CRC after adjusting for potential confounding factors.

Vitamin D status and mortality has been reported in observational studies. The precise association shape and optimal vitamin D status remain undetermined. Higher 25(OH)D concentrations are nonlinearly associated with lower risk of all-cause, CVD, and cancer mortality.

Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) deteriorates suddenly primarily due to excessive inflammatory injury. Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is implicated in endocrine control of the immune system. We investigated the association between circulating IGF-1 concentrations and mortality risk.

Oral contraceptive use has been suggested to influence the risk of breast, ovarian, and endometrial cancer. We performed an observational study in 256,661 women from UK Biobank, born between 1939 and 1970. Odds were lower among ever users, compared with never users, for ovarian cancer.

UK Biobank comprises around half a million people aged 40-69 years at study induction. Hospitalisations for COVID-19 were ascertained between 16th March and 26th April 2020. An elevated risk of the disease was related to disadvantaged levels of education.

We determined differential gene expression in response to high glucose in lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from matched individuals with type 1 diabetes with and without retinopathy. Expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) of the glucose response genes were tested for association with diabetes. We identified folliculin ( FLCN ) as a susceptibility gene for diabetic ret inopathy.

Women with previous HDP had a higher risk for future hypertension and cardiovascular diagnoses, increased blood pressures, and lower risk for breast cancer compared with women without HDP. When taking genotype into account, HDP-positive women carrying at least 1 thymine (T) allele of rs2016347 had a lower risk of developing nonbreast cancer.

The electrocardiogram (ECG) is one of the most useful non-invasive diagnostic tests for a wide array of cardiac disorders. Traditional approaches to analyzing ECGs focus on individual segments. We performed comprehensive deep phenotyping of 77,190 ECGs in the UK Biobank.

Data from 50,000 exome-sequenced UK Biobank participants was analysed. Subjects were treated as cases if they had seen a psychiatrist for "nerves, anxiety, tension or depression"

Aims Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is affected by a combination of genetic and environmental factors. However, comprehensive genomic risk scores (GRSs) for T2D prediction have not been evaluated. We developed a metaGRS using 1,692 genetic variants in the UK Biobank training set.

Some studies reported that mildly elevated serum bilirubin levels were associated with decreased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and diabetes. Whether these are causal relationships remains unclear. This study aims to examine the causal effects of bilirubs on CVD, diabetes and their subtypes. Data we used in this study includes individual data from the UK Biobank cohort with 331,002 white British participants.

The TyG index significantly increased the risk of overall CVD, ischemic heart diseases (IHD), and cerebrovascular diseases (CED) The effect of GLU and TG was independent of each other genetically and presented dose-response effects in bivariate meta-regression analysis.

C-reactive protein (CRP) has been used as a biomarker of chronic low-grade inflammation in observational studies. We aimed to determine whether genetically determined CRP was associated with hundreds of human phenotypes to guide anti-inflammatory interventions. We found CRP robustly associated with several diseases in the UK Biobank and the FinnGen population, but could not be replicated.

Mendelian randomization study aims to investigate causal associations between genetically predicted insomnia and 14 cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) as well as the potential mediator role of 17 cardiometabolic risk factors. Genetic predicted insomnia was consistent significantly positively associated with 9 of 14 CVDs. insomnia was consistently associated with higher body mass index, triglycerides, and lower high-density lipoprotein cholesterol.

Researchers found that annual birth rate peaks in April and May. Poorer subjective general health and slower reaction time were observed in May. People reported shorter periods of sleep, easier waking, earlier chronotype, more daytime dozing and napping in summer compared to winter.

Longitudinal sleep timing and genotype data from 1449 participants were collected for up to 27 years. Gene-environment interaction analysis was performed for 445 candidate single nucleotide polymorphisms. The strongest associated gene for sleep trajectories was ALKBH5, which has functions of DNA repair and epigenetic regulation.

Odds of being hospitalised due to COVID-19 were higher among those who had lower birthweight and mothers who were smoking during pregnancy. Maternal smoking was positively associated with infection. Breastfeeding was negatively associated with the infection.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a common and disabling condition. The importance of healthy lifestyle for this disease is poorly explored. To test whether adherence to healthier lifestyle patterns is associated with a lower presence of MS, 728 participants with MS were matched with healthy controls.

 COVID-19 may present with neurological signs, but whether people already affected by neurological conditions are at a higher risk of contracting it is still not known. 502,536 community-dwelling UK Biobank participants (54.4% male, mean age 56.6 +/- 10.3 years) were included. Nerve, nerve root and plexus disorders (G50-G59) were the most common conditions identified. The presence of CO VID-19 was almost doubled in neurological conditions compared to the general population.

Using the UK Biobank cohort, we extracted quintiles of self-reported weekly physical activity. Categories of measured BMI, waist circumference, and BF were generated. High physical activity was associated with lower risk of premature mortality in all strata of adiposity except for those with BMI &#8805;35 kg/m2.

Stair climbing has the potential to lower the risk of premature death, but current evidence is scarce. We aimed to examine whether daily stair climbing is associated with lower risk of all-cause, cancer, and cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality. We extracted information of self-reported daily flights of stairs climbed at home.

Age and female sex are risk factors for dementia. Menopause is associated with cognitive dysfunction. We studied whether age interacts with sex or menopause in explaining biomarkers of dementia during midlife.

Sex and sexual differentiation are pervasive across the tree of life. Because females and males often have substantially different functional requirements, we expect selection to differ between the sexes. Theory and population-level simulations indicate that sex-specific differences in viability would need to be very large to maintain reported levels of between-sex allelic differentiation.

ApoE e4 allele is associated with reduced longevity and increased Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) and Alzheimer's disease. Data were from 379,000 UK Biobank participants, aged 40 to 70 years. e2e3 had mostly lower lipid-related biomarker levels including reduced total and LDL-cholesterol.

Homozygosity for the SERPINA1  Z allele causes rare condition that can cause lung and liver disease. We conducted a large, population-based study to determine Z allele effects on >2400 phenotypes in the UK Biobank (N=303 353) Heterozygosity was strongly associated with increased height and with other nonrespiratory phenotypes.

In human and nonhuman primates, sex differences typically explain much interindividual variability. Male and female behaviors may have played unique roles in the likely coevolution of increasing brain volume and more complex social dynamics. We applied probabilistic generative modeling to 10,000 UK Biobank participants.

Low-frequency 1q21.1 distal deletion and duplication copy number variant (CNV) carriers are predisposed to multiple neurodevelopmental disorders, including schizophrenia, autism and intellectual disability. The underlying brain structural diversity remains largely unknown.

Chronological age is the strongest risk factor for most chronic diseases. Developing a biomarker-based age may shed light on the effects of age on later-life health and inform opportunities for disease prevention.

Abdominal size is associated positively with the risk of some cancers. influence of body mass index (BMI) and gluteofemoral size is unclear. waist and hip circumference are strongly correlated with BMI. We examined associations of 33 cancers with A Body Shape Index (ABSI) and hip index (HI)

Education is strongly genetically correlated with intelligence (rg = 0.70). We used a novel approach - multi-trait analysis of genome-wide association studies (MTAG) - to combine two large GWASs of education and intelligence. We found 187 independent loci associated with intelligence, implicating 538 genes.

Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is a hormone that has insulin-sensitizing properties. Some trials of FGF21 analogs show weight loss and lipid-lowering effects. Recent studies have shown that a common allele in the F GF21 gene alters the balance of macronutrients consumed.

Strabismus refers to an abnormal alignment of the eyes leading to the loss of central binocular vision. As such, it is inherited as a complex genetic trait, affecting 2-4% of the population. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) for self-reported strabismes revealed a single genome- wide significant locus on chromosome 17q25.

Vitamin D has been intensively studied for its association with human health. The scope of such association and the causal role of vitamin D remain controversial. We aim to comprehensively investigate the links between vitamin D and human health through both epidemiological and Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses.

Using genetic liability (rather than phenotypic measures of disease) as a proxy for psychiatric disease risk can be a useful alternative for research questions that would traditionally require large cohort studies with long-term follow up. We conducted a hypothesis-free phenome-wide association study in about 330,000 participants from the UK Biobank to examine associations of polygenic risk scores.

Current genome-wide association studies do not yet capture sufficient diversity in populations and scope of phenotypes. To expand an atlas of genetic associations in non-European populations, we conducted 220 deep-phenotype genome- wide association studies. Meta-analyses with the UK Biobank and FinnGen identified 5,000 new loci.

Preeclampsia, gestational diabetes, preterm birth, and placental abruption are among the most studied ones. Using publicly available data, we confirm that immune system and, in particular, T-cell related pathways are one of the most important drivers of pregnancy-related traits. Pathway analysis of the data reveals that cell adhesion and matrisome-related genes are also commonly involved in pregnancy pathologies.

Conventional human leukocyte antigen (HLA) imputation methods drop their performance for infrequent alleles. This reduces reliability of trans-ethnic major histocompatibility complex (MHC) fine-mapping due to inter-ethnic heterogeneity in allele frequency spectra. We develop DEEP*HLA, a deep learning method for imputing HLA genotypes.

The etiology of most complex diseases involves genetic variants, environmental factors, and gene-environment interaction (G × E) effects. Compared with marginal genetic association studies, G × E analysis requires more samples and detailed measure of environmental exposures. Large-scale population-based biobanks with detailed phenotypic and environmental information, such as UK-Biobank, can be ideal resources for identifying G → E effects.

Time-to-event data analysis has attracted increasing attention in the genetics studies of human diseases. The Cox proportional hazards (PH) regression model is one of the most used approaches. SPACox requires fitting a Cox PH regression model only once across the genome-wide analysis and then uses a saddlepoint approximation to calibrate test statistics.

The UK Biobank is a very large, prospective population-based cohort study across the United Kingdom. It provides unprecedented opportunities for researchers to investigate the relationship between genotypic information and phenotypes of interest.

We present a method for detecting identical-by-descent haplotype segments in phased genotype data. Our method, called hap-IBD, combines a compressed representation of haplotype data, the positional Burrows-Wheeler transform, and multi-threaded execution. Analysis of 485,346 UK Biobank samples with 12 computational threads detects 231.5 billion autosomal IBD segments with length &#8805;2 cM in 24.4 h.

Many genetic markers have been associated with variations in treatment response to analgesics, but none have been assessed in the context of combination therapies. In this study, the treatment effects of nortriptyline and morphine were tested for an association with genetic markers relevant to pain pathways. The presence of the C allele accounted for 51% of pain variance in this subgroup in response to combination treatment.

FastGWA-GLMM is a GLMM-based GWA tool that is severalfold to orders of magnitude faster than the state-of-the-art tools. It is scalable to cohorts with millions of individuals. We applied it to the UKB data of 456,348 individuals, 11,842,647 variants and 2,989 binary traits.

Only a minority of excess alcohol drinkers develop cirrhosis. We developed and evaluated risk stratification scores to identify those at highest risk. A combination of 3 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (PNPLA3:rs738409, SUGP1-TM6SF2:rs10401969, HSD17B13:rs6834314) and diabetes status (UK Biobank: relevant n = 6,898) worked best.

Schizophrenia has a genetic component, however it cannot be isolated to a single gene. We tested several machine learning algorithms to determine which was most effective in predicting schizophrenia. We found that the stacked ensemble, performed best with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.545 (95% CI 0.539-0.550)

Study was to identify genetic variants associated with rotator cuff disease. Used genome-wide association study (GWAS) for shoulder impingement using the UK Biobank (UKB) cohort. Combining data with a prior GWAS for rotators cuff tears resulted in identification of an additional 7 loci.

Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) is a common and disabling condition of the hand. It is caused by entrapment of the median nerve at the level of the wrist. Estimates of prevalence range between 5-10%. Here, we undertake a genome-wide association study (GWAS)

Common musculoskeletal conditions include pain in the neck and shoulder areas. This study seeks to identify the genetic variants associated with neck or shoulder pain. It used 203 309 subjects from the UK Biobank cohort and looked for replication evidence from the Generation Scotland: Scottish Family Health Study (GS:SFHS) and TwinsUK.

The rapid rise in prevalence over recent decades and high heritability of myopia suggest a role for gene-environment (G × E) interactions in myopia susceptibility. We aimed to test the hypothesis that genetic analysis of susceptibility to visual experience-induced myopia in an animal model would identify novel G × E interaction loci. Chicks aged 7 days were monocularly deprived of form vision for 4 days.

Frozen shoulder affects up to 5% of individuals aged 40-60 years. Little is known about the causes of the condition, but diabetes is a strong risk factor. We have identified genetic loci associated with frozen shoulder. Diabetes is a likely causal risk factor for the painful condition.

Raised albumin-creatinine ratio (ACR) is an indicator of microvascular damage and renal disease. We aimed to identify genetic variants associated with raised ACR. After excluding variants at the CUBN locus, an ACR genetic risk score was associated with a higher risk of hypertension.

Aberrant connectivity of large-scale brain networks has been observed among individuals with alcohol use disorders (AUDs) as well as in those at risk. Electroencephalographical (EEG) coherence, which measures the degree of synchrony between brain regions, may be a useful measure of connectivity patterns in neural networks for studying the genetics of AUD.

Frailty is a common geriatric syndrome and strongly associated with disability, mortality and hospitalization. The mechanisms underlying FI are multifactorial and not well understood, but a genetic basis has been suggested. Understanding the genetic determinants and biological mechanisms underpinning FI may help to delay or even prevent frailty.

Research suggests that the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1&#946; has a modulatory effect on the hippocampus. The hippocampus is a brain structure important for learning and memory as well as linked with both psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. Here, we used an imaging genetics strategy to test an association between an IL-1 &#9 46; polygenic score and hippocampal volume.

Blood pressure (BP) was inconsistently associated with migraine. The mechanisms of BP-lowering medications in migraine prophylaxis are unknown. Cross-trait meta-analysis reveals 14 shared loci (P &#8804; 5 × 10-08)

We analyzed genome-wide SNP data for asthma and allergic diseases in 33,593 cases and 76,768 controls of European ancestry from UK Biobank. Cross-trait analysis identified 38 genomes-wide significant loci. Computational analysis showed that shared genetic loci are enriched in immune/inflammatory systems and tissues with epithelium cells.

Osteoporosis is the most common metabolic bone disorder globally. We aimed to identify pleiotropic loci associated with bone mineral density and nonbone phenotypes in genome-wide association studies.

11,285 multimorbidities among 439 common diseases were identified. 46% of them were genetically interpretable at the loci, network, or overall genetic architecture levels. Multimorbidity affecting the same and different physiological systems displayed different patterns of the shared genetic components.

Maternal brain adaptations occur in response to pregnancy. Little is known about how parity impacts white matter and white matter ageing trajectories later in life. Study looked at 8,895 women in the UK Biobank cohort (age range = 54-81 years)

Age-related hearing impairment (ARHI) can be mitigated, but not cured or eliminated. To identify genetic influences underlying ARHI, we conducted a genome-wide association study of ARHI in 6,527 cases and 45,882 controls among the non-Hispanic whites from the Genetic Epidemiology Research on Adult Health and Aging (GERA) cohort.

Body mass index (BMI), a proxy measure for obesity, is determined by both environmental (including ethnicity, age, and sex) and genetic factors. However, the impact, interplay, and underlying biological mechanisms among BMI, environment, genetics, and ancestry are not completely understood. We utilized 427,509 calendar year-averaged BMI measurements from 100,418 adults.

Cataract is the leading cause of blindness among the elderly worldwide. Cataract surgery is one of the most common operations performed in the United States. As the genetic etiology of cataract formation remains unclear, we conducted a genome-wide association meta-analysis.

We conducted an integrated study of prostate cancer genetic etiology in two cohorts using custom genotyping microarrays, large imputation reference panels, and functional annotation approaches. 11,984 men (6,196 prostate cancer cases and 5,788 controls) of European ancestry from Northern California Kaiser Permanente were genotyped and meta-analyzed with 196,269 men from the UK Biobank. Three novel loci, including two rare variants (European ancestry minor allele frequency  HOXB13 ), were identified.

Few efforts have been paid to evaluate the potential relationships between brain imaging and intelligence until now. We performed a two-stage analysis to systematically explore the relationships between 3144 brain image-derived phenotypes (IDPs) and intelligence. Our findings may help to understand the genetic mechanisms of the effects of brain structure and function on the development of intelligence.

Lung function is a heritable complex phenotype with obesity being one of its important risk factors. Most genome-wide association studies (GWASs) for lung function have been based on European populations. Large-scale lung function GWASs in other populations are lacking.

Different exposures, including diet, physical activity, or external conditions can contribute to genotype-environment interactions (G×E) Although high-dimensional environmental data are increasingly available, multi-environment tests for G×E are not established. Here, we propose the structured linear mixed model (StructLMM), a computationally efficient method to identify and characterize loci that interact with one or more environments.

Nasal polyps (NP) are lesions on the nasal and paranasal sinus mucosa and are a risk factor for chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) We performed genome-wide association studies on NP and CRS in Iceland and the UK. Most notably, a missense variant in ALOX15 that causes a p.Thr560Met alteration in arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase (15-LO) confers significant protection against NP.

Machine-learning techniques have helped solve a broad range of prediction problems. They are not widely used to build polygenic risk scores for the prediction of complex traits. We propose a novel heuristic based on machine- learning techniques (GraBLD) to boost the predictive performance of polygenicrisk scores.

CKD is highly prevalent in the elderly population. It is rarely investigated whether kidney function is causally linked to biological aging itself. Genetic instruments for telomere attrition were applied to a CKDGen genome wide association study results for 41,395 cases of CKD.

Urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (ACR) is a marker of diabetic nephropathy and microvascular damage. Metabolic-related traits are observationally associated with ACR, but their causal role is uncertain. MR suggested that seven traits have causal effects on ACR.

Interactions between genetic variants-epistasis-is pervasive in model systems. Interactions can profoundly impact evolutionary adaption, population disease dynamics, genetic mapping, and precision medicine efforts. We develop a model for structured polygenic epistasis, called coordinated epistasis (CE)

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a leading cause of irreversible vision loss. Much of the genetic risk remains unaccounted for, especially in African-Americans. We identify 24 loci (P)

Motion atlases can be used to learn descriptors that are linked to different pathologies and which can subsequently be used for diagnosis. In this work we propose a framework to build a multimodal cardiac motion atlas from 3D magnetic resonance and 3D ultrasound data.

The identification of gene-gene and gene-environment interactions in genome-wide association studies is challenging due to the unknown nature of the interactions. Parametric regression models are suitable to look for prespecified interactions. Nonparametric models such as tree ensemble models have previously been difficult to interpret.

Gene-environment (GxE) interactions are one of the least studied aspects of the genetic architecture of human traits and diseases. The environment of an individual is inherently high dimensional, evolves through time and can be expensive and time consuming to measure. We show that GPLEMMA is more computationally efficient than LEMMA on large datasets.

The genetic variant rs72824905-G (minor allele) in the PLCG2 gene was previously associated with a reduced Alzheimer's disease risk (AD) We found an association with reduced risk of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) We did not find evidence for an effect on Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and multiple sclerosis (MS)

Osteoarthritis (OA) is a complex disease, but its genetic aetiology remains poorly characterised. To identify novel susceptibility loci for OA, we carried out a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in individuals from the largest UK-based OA collections to date.

Depression is a leading cause of worldwide disability. There remains considerable uncertainty regarding its neural and behavioural associations. We report 77 traits that are significantly associated with depression-PRS. Mendelian Randomisation analysis supports a potential causal effect of liability to depression on brain white matter microstructure.

Using human phenotype ontology (HPO) terms, we systematically mapped 60 phenotypes related to AS, MS, DS and NS in 337,198 unrelated white British. We performed logistic regression adjusting for age, sex, and the first 5 genetic principal components. Overall, we observed multiple phenotype-genotype correlations, such as the association between variation in JAG1, FBN1, PTPN11 and SOS2 with blood pressure.

Some commonly prescribed drugs are associated with increased risk of osteoporotic fractures. fracture risk stratification using skeletal measures is not often performed to identify those at risk before these medications are prescribed. We tested whether a genomically predicted skeletal measure, speed of sound (gSOS) from heel ultrasound, is an independent risk factor for fracture in users of fracture-related drugs.

 LDL-C (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol) risk score (PRS) not well understood, both within the general population and individuals with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) We developed the HDL-C PRS using Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator regression in 377 286 White British participants from UK Biobank. We tested its association with LDL- C according to FH variant carrier status in another 41 748 whole-exome sequenced individuals.

Adult height is highly heritable, yet no genetic predictor has demonstrated clinical utility compared to mid-parental height. A polygenic risk score was constructed based on meta-analysis of genomewide association studies and evaluated on the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children.

Increasing childhood obesity rates are associated with not only adverse physical, but also mental health outcomes, including depression. These negative outcomes may be caused and/or exacerbated by the bullying and shaming overweight individuals experience. We hypothesized that a genetic risk for higher BMI, will predict higher early life stress (ELS), which in turn will Predict higher depressive symptoms in adulthood.

An individual's genetics can dramatically influence breast cancer (BC) risk. Clinical measures for prevention do exist, but non-invasive personalized measures for reducing BC risk are limited. No previous study has explored whether a range of widely taken approved drugs modulate BC genetics.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disease. Rare point mutations and copy number gains of the SNCA gene have been shown to cause autosomal dominant PD. Common DNA variants identified using Genome-Wide Association Studies are a moderate risk factor for PD.

Tests of association between a phenotype and a set of genes in a biological pathway can provide insights into the genetic architecture of complex phenotypes. Most existing gene set tests have limited power to detect gene set-phenotype association when a small fraction of the genes are associated with the phenotype.

We propose a deep probabilistic model for local anomaly detection in sequences of heart shapes, modelled as point sets, in a cardiac cycle. A deep recurrent encoder-decoder network captures the spatio-temporal dependencies to predict the next shape in the cycle. We demonstrate the versatility of the method using two shape datasets derived from: one million biventricular CMR images from 20,000 participants in the UK Biobank.

We present a massive investigation into the genetic basis of human lifespan. We mapped six genome-wide significant loci associated with parental lifespan. By combining the  AncestryDNA results with those of an independent UK Biobank dataset we identified fifteen parental lifespan-associated loci.

Obesity has been consistently associated with a greater colorectal cancer risk, but this relationship is weaker among women. In the UK Biobank, we investigated the associations between body size (body mass index [BMI], height, waist circumference, and waist-to-hip ratio) and body fat composition.

The role of growth factors and inflammation in the onset of glioma is poorly understood. We examined associations between C-reactive protein (CRP), white blood cell count (WBC), neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) in the UK Biobank cohort.

The nature and underlying mechanisms of the observed increased vulnerability to posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in women are unclear. We investigated the genetic overlap of PTSD with anthropometric traits and reproductive behaviors and functions in women. The top association was related to BMI-adjusted waist circumference.

Exome sequencing identified a rare (minor allele frequency 0.0023) mutation in SMAD9 segregating with HBM in this autosomal dominant family. Affected individuals have bone mineral density (BMD) Z-scores +3 to +5, mandible enlargement, a broad frame, torus palatinus/mandibularis, pes planus, increased shoe size, and a tendency to sink when swimming.

In recent years, conditional and joint multiple-SNP analysis (GCTA-COJO) has been successful in allowing the discovery of additional association signals within detected loci. This suggests that many loci mapped in GWASs harbor more than a single causal variant. In order to interpret the underlying mechanism regulating a complex trait of interest in each discovered locus, researchers must assess the magnitude of allelic heterogeneity within the locus.

Single nucleotide polymorphism-based genetic risk scores (GRS) model genetic risk as a continuum and can discriminate coeliac disease. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) DQ gene testing is available in clinic but does not include non-HLA attributed risk and is limited by discrete risk stratification.

Functional dyspepsia (FD) is a common gastrointestinal condition of poorly understood pathophysiology. While symptoms' overlap with other conditions may indicate common pathogenetic mechanisms, genetic predisposition is suspected but has not been adequately investigated. We surveyed FD comorbidities, heritability, and genetic correlations across a wide spectrum of conditions and traits.

Study looked for interaction effects between well-established environmental risk factors and common genetic variants exerting main effects on colorectal cancer risk. Seventy of the 1,500 tested interactions were nominally significant in phase I. After testing these 70 interactions in phase II, an interaction between rs11903757 (2q32.3) and body mass index (BMI) was nominallysignificant ( P  = 0.02)

We introduce a method for training neural networks to perform image or volume segmentation. Prior knowledge about the topology of the segmented object can be explicitly provided and then incorporated into the training process. We find that embedding explicit prior knowledge in neural network segmentation tasks is most beneficial when the task is especially challenging.

Uterine fibroids affect up to 77% of women by menopause and account for up to $34 billion in healthcare costs each year. Although fibroid risk is heritable, genetic risk is not well understood. We conducted a two-stage case-control meta-analysis of genetic variants in European and African ancestry women.

Plasma lipids are known heritable risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Increasing evidence also supports shared genetics with diseases of other organ systems. We devised a comprehensive three-phase framework to identify new lipid-associated genes.

Familial relatedness (FR) and population structure (PS) are two major sources for genetic correlation. In the human population, both FR and PS can further break down into additive and dominant components. This study introduces a dominant genomic relationship matrix. A unified linear mixed model is also developed, which can account for both the additive and dominance effects.

Colorectal cancer risk stratification is crucial to improve screening and risk-reducing recommendations. Current screening guidelines in the UK, USA and Australia focus solely on family history. We investigated adding a polygenic risk score based on 45 single-nucleotide polymorphisms to a family history model.

Study looked at brain white matter microstructural differences associated with normotension, pre-hypertension and hypertension. 4659 participants without known neurological or psychiatric disease (62.3+/-7.4 yrs, 47.0% male) in UK Biobank. Brain white matter intracellular volume fraction was significantly lower in hypertensive individuals.

Study: ABO gene, chr 9q34.2, which determines blood type, may affect COVID-19 disease severity. Danish study identified ABO blood group as a risk factor for SARS-CoV-2 infection but not for hospitalization or death.

Brain structure in later life reflects both influences of intrinsic aging and those of lifestyle, environment and disease. We developed a deep neural network model trained on brain MRI scans to predict "healthy" brain age. Brain regions most informative for the prediction included the cerebellum, hippocampus, amygdala and insular cortex.

Higher levels of physical activity (PA) are associated with a lower risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) However, uncertainty exists on whether the inverse relationship between PA and incidence of CVD is greater at the highest levels of PA. We investigated the association between accelerometer-measured moderate, vigorous, and total PA and incident CVD in the UK Biobank cohort.

106,053 UK Biobank participants wore a wrist-worn GENEactiv monitor. Men and women with the worst cardio-metabolic disease perform around half of moderate to vigorous physical activity on a daily basis compared to healthy individuals.

The COVID-19 pandemic has necessitated novel approaches and collaborative efforts across multiple disciplines. Circadian biology may inform our diagnostic and therapeutic strategies in this pandemic.

Accurate construction of polygenic scores (PGS) can enable early diagnosis of diseases and facilitate the development of personalized medicine. Accurate PGS construction requires prediction models that are both adaptive to different genetic architectures and scalable to biobank scale datasets. Here, we develop a method called Deterministic Bayesian Sparse Linear Mixed Model.

Deep learning has huge potential for accurate disease prediction with neuroimaging data. But prediction performance is often limited by training-dataset size and computing memory requirements. To address this, we propose a deep convolutional neural network model, Simple Fully Convolutional Network (SFCN), for accurate prediction of brain age.

 SNP-heritability is a fundamental quantity in the study of complex traits. It remains unclear which estimates reported in the literature are reliable. We show that genome-wide SNP-Heritability can be accurately estimated from biobank-scale data irrespective of genetic architecture.

ShAPEIT4 substantially improves upon other methods to process large genotype and high coverage sequencing datasets. It notably exhibits sub-linear running times with sample size, provides highly accurate haplotypes and allows integrating external phasing information.

ACE inhibitors reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes using a Mendelian randomization (MR) approach. A genetic risk score (GRS) underpinning lower ACE concentration was then tested for association. Genetically lower ACE concentrations were associated with a lower risk of Type 2 diabetes.

Tobacco smoking is a well-established risk factor for cardiovascular disease. This study investigated the effects of smoking using a nested matched case-control study design. 5,668 participants of the UK Biobank study who underwent cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging were screened for inclusion.

This retrospective longitudinal study included 58,897 UK Biobank participants tested for COVID-19 between March 2020 and February 2021. The hospital admission rate was 57% higher in the obese group with periodontal disease than without. The results could inform health providers, policy makers, and the general public of the importance to maintain good oral health.

Study included 283,443 adults from UK Biobank without CVD and cancer at baseline. One point increase of the healthy sleep score was associated with a 4-11% lower risk of all-cause mortality. Those with a favourable sleep pattern had 24-42% lower risks.

International dietary guidelines aim to reduce risks of all-cause mortality, cardiovascular disease (CVD), and fatal CVD often associated with poor dietary habits. Most studies have examined associations with individual nutrients, foods, or dietary patterns, as opposed to quantifying the pooled health effects of adherence to international dietary recommendations. We investigated associations between total adherence to the World Health Organization (WHO) dietary recommendations for saturated fats, free sugars, fibre, and fruits and vegetables.

Body size is an important modifiable risk factor for postmenopausal breast cancer. It remains unclear whether direct measures of fat mass are better indicators of risk than anthropometric measures. We analyzed data from 162,691 women in UK Biobank followed from 2006 to 2014.

We used information from 321,472 participants in the UK biobank, including 30,561 cases of obesity-related cancer. We looked at associations with 14 types of cancer, previously suggested to be associated with obesity. All genetic instruments had a strong association with BMI (p)

Study aimed to determine longitudinal associations of body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC) and grip strength (GS) with objectively measured PA. Data are from the UK Biobank study.

Analysis included 153,139 adults from the UK Biobank, aged 40 to 70 years at baseline (2006-2010) Cataract was ascertained using hospital inpatient, and self-reported data until 2021. Anthropometric measures, body fat percentage, and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) were measured at baseline.

The obesity paradox in which overweight/obesity is associated with mortality benefits is believed to be explained by confounding and reverse causality rather than by a genuine clinical benefit of excess body weight. We aimed to gain deeper insights into the paradox through analyzing mortality relationships with several adiposity measures. We assessed subgroups with type 2 diabetes, with coronary heart disease (CHD), with cancer, and by smoking status.

Adult height is associated with risk of a range of diseases, but the breadth of such associations and whether these associations are primary or due to confounding are unclear. We examined the association of adult height with 50 diseases using both epidemiological and genetic approaches to identify un-confounded associations and possible underlying mechanisms.

Neurocognitive impairment is a common complication of congenital heart disease (CHD) as well as acquired cardiovascular disease. Data are limited on neurocognitive function in adults with CHD (ACHD) Individuals with ACHD had significantly poorer performance on alpha-numeric trail making, a measure of visual attention and cognitive flexibility. These differences appear to be driven by increased burden of cerebro- and cardiovascular disease among individuals with A CHD.

Low platelet count, or thrombocytopenia, is a common haematological abnormality. It can be acquired or hereditary and indicative of a complex disorder. We review how large cohorts, such as the UK Biobank and INTERVAL studies, have enabled an accurate description of platelet parameters in adult populations.

The UK Biobank Exome Sequencing Consortium (UKB-ESC) is a private-public partnership. It will complete the sequencing of exomes for all ~500,000 UKB participants. As a result, exome data from 200,643 UKB enrollees are now available.

Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) disproportionately affects older people. Observational studies suggest indolent cardiovascular involvement after recovery from acute CO VID-19. However, these findings may reflect pre-existing cardiac phenotypes. We tested the association of baseline cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) phenotypes with incident COVID- 19.

Shiftwork is an emerging social factor that contributes to disease in the urban environment across the working population. Studies have linked shiftwork to obesity and diabetes in nurses and industry workers. Little is known about the implications of shiftwork for the general workforce.

Adverse muscle composition (MC) as measured by magnetic resonance imaging has previously been linked to poor function, comorbidity, and increased hospitalization. The aim of this study was to investigate if adverse MC predicts all-cause mortality using data from UK Biobank.

Age-related cognitive decline is a well-known phenomenon after age 65. Little is known about earlier changes and prior studies are based on relatively small samples. We investigated the impact of age on cognitive decline in the largest population sample to date.

A comprehensive characterization of the brain's white matter is critical for improving our understanding of healthy and diseased aging. Here we used diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (dMRI) to estimate age and sex effects on white matter microstructure in a cross-sectional sample of 15,628 adults aged 45-80 years old.

APOE genotypes are associated with ischemic heart disease (IHD), several other cardiovascular diseases and dementia. Previous studies have not comprehensively considered all genotypes. In the UK Biobank, including 391,992 white British participants, we compared effects of APOE genotype on IHD and its risk factors.

Previous studies have shown an increased risk for mental health problems in children born to both younger and older parents. We previously used a novel design to reveal a latent mechanism of genetic association between schizophrenia and age at first birth in women (AFB) Here, we use independent data from the UK Biobank (N = 38,892) to replicate the finding of an association between predicted genetic risk of schizophrenia and AFB in women.

Mendelian randomization (MR) technique is not limited by traditional confounding. MR uses genetic variants as instruments under the assumption that they act on BMI only through age at menarche (no pleiotropy) MR-Egger regression did not suggest directional bias.

A trend towards earlier menarche in women has been associated with childhood factors (e.g. obesity) and hypothesised environmental exposures. We used Mendelian randomization where genetic variants are used as proxies for age atMenarche. In adult women, in line with previous evidence, we found an effect on restrictive lung impairment with a 24.8 mL increase in FVC per year increase in age.

It is unclear if puberty timing influences future physical activity (PA) Data were from two British cohorts. Per 1-year older age at menarche, PA was associated with higher mean counts/minute at age 14 years. associations attenuated at age 16 years.

Phenotypic biomarkers (e.g. cholesterol, weight, and glucose) are important to diagnose and treat diseases associated with aging. While many biomarkers are co-dependent, it is generally unknown how age influences their co-dependence. In the following, we analyzed 50 biomarkers in 27,508 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) participants.

Quantifying the microstructural properties of the human brain's connections is necessary for understanding normal ageing and disease. Here we examine brain white matter magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data in 3,513 generally healthy people aged 44.64-77.12 years from the UK Biobank.

The aim of this study was to identify genetic risk variants associated with the age at which symptoms of allergic disease first develop. Self-reported age-of-onset information was available for 117,130 genotyped individuals of European ancestry from the UK Biobank study.

Study examined age-differences in surface-based morphometric measures of cortical thickness, volume, and surface area in a well-defined sample of 8137 generally healthy UK Biobank participants aged 45-79 years. Age of about 60 is a break point for increasing negative associations between age and brain morphology.

Both genetic and environmental factors contribute to lung cancer, but the degree to which air pollution modifies the impact of genetic susceptibility on lung cancer remains unknown. We analyzed data from 455,974 participants (53% women) without previous cancer at baseline in the UK Biobank. The results showed significant associations between the risk of lung cancer and PM 2.5, PM 10, NO 2 and NO x.

We used Mendelian randomization to explore causal relationships between the degree of alcohol consumption and several cardiometabolic traits in the UK Biobank. We found that one additional drink of alcohol per day was positively associated with systolic blood pressure, hemorrhagic stroke, and atrial fibrillation. Alcohol was also associated with all cardiovascular disease and all-cause death. Findings were generally null in replication with two-sample analyses.

UK Biobank is a UK-wide cohort of 502,655 people aged 40-69, recruited from National Health Service registrants between 2006-10. Type 2 diabetes is a key exposure and outcome. We developed algorithms to define prevalent and incident diabetes.

Chronic liver disease (CLD) is a growing cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Coffee consumption has been linked with lower rates of CLD, but little is known about the effects of different coffee types. This study aimed to investigate associations of coffee consumption with chronic liver disease outcomes.

Using genetic scores for fasting plasma glucose (FPG GS) and type 2 diabetes (T2D GS), we investigated whether the fasting, 1-hour and 2-hour glucose thresholds from the WHO 2013 criteria for gestational diabetes (GDM) have different implications for genetic susceptibility to raised fasting glucose. We looked at women from the Hyperglycemia and Adverse Pregnancy Outcome (HAPO) and Atlantic Diabetes in Pregnancy (DIP) studies.

Adenine phosphoribosyltransferase deficiency is a rare, autosomal recessive disorder of purine metabolism that causes nephrolithiasis and progressive chronic kidney disease. The small number of reported cases indicates an extremely low prevalence. It has been suggested that missed diagnoses may play a role.

The genetic locus 3p21.31 has been associated with severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) The underlying pathophysiological mechanism is unknown. To identify intermediate traits associated with the 3p.31 locus, we first performed a phenome-wide association study.

Secondhand smoke exposure is a major public health risk that is especially harmful to the developing brain. It is unclear if early exposure affects brain structure during middle age and older adulthood. We hypothesized that PSE would be associated with cortical disruption in primary sensory areas compared to unexposed adults.

The apolipoprotein (APOE) e4 locus is a genetic risk factor for dementia. Carriers of the e4 allele may be more vulnerable to conditions that are independent risk factors for cognitive decline.

PM 10 or NO 2 higher by 10 &#181;g.m -3 was associated with 12.8% (95% CI 9.5-16.3%) and 1.9% ( 95% CI 1.1-2.8%) higher lifetime asthma prevalence, respectively. Noise exposure was not significantly associated with asthma prevalence.

Mitochondrial DNA variation in common diseases has been underexplored, partly due to a lack of genotype calling and quality-control procedures. We show correlations between nuclear and mitochondrial genomic structures within subpopulations of Great Britain. We establish a UK Biobank reference atlas of mtDNA-phenotype associations.

We have analysed 162 PRS (p -05 ) derived from GWAS and 551 heritable traits from the UK Biobank study (N = 334,398) Findings can be investigated using a web application.

Mendelian randomization (MR) is a powerful tool in epidemiology that can be used to estimate the causal effect of an exposure on an outcome. This has been extended to multivariable MR (MVMR) to estimate effect of two or more exposures. We use simulations and theory to clarify the interpretation of estimated effects in a MVMR analysis.

UK Biobank is a major prospective epidemiological study, including multimodal brain imaging, genetics and ongoing health outcomes. Previously, we published genome-wide associations of 3,144 brain imaging-derived phenotypes, with a discovery sample of 8,428 individuals. We now include the X chromosome and new classes of imaging- derived phenotypes.

Efforts to prevent depression have focused on a limited number of candidate factors. Using phenotypic and genomic data from over 100,000 UK Biobank participants, the authors sought to systematically screen and validate a wide range of potential modifiable factors for depression.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) has been shown to be predictive of disease risk such as type 2 diabetes (T2D) However, existing studies on genetic prediction for T2D only had limited predictive power. We proposed a new three-step filtering procedure, which aimed to include truly predictive single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) into PRS model.

Up to 30% of people who test positive to SARS-CoV-2 will develop severe COVID-19 and require hospitalisation. Age, gender, and comorbidities are known to be risk factors but are generally considered independently without accurate knowledge of the magnitude of their effect on risk. We have developed a model that enables accurate prediction of severe CO VID-19.

Few tools exist that can integrate the genome and exposome for complex trait analyses. We propose a linear mixed model approach to bridge this gap. We illustrate our approach using traits from the UK Biobank. The joint model explains substantially more phenotypic variance.

A growing body of evidence suggests that vitamin D deficiency has been associated with an increased susceptibility to viral and bacterial respiratory infections. In this study, we aimed to examine the association between vitamin D and COVID-19 risk and outcomes. Ambient UVB was strongly and inversely associated with hospitalization and death overall.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified many variants associated with complex traits, but identifying the causal gene(s) is a major challenge. We present an open resource that provides systematic fine mapping and gene prioritization across 133,441 published human GWAS loci. We identify 729 loci fine mapped to a single-coding causal variant.

Researchers continue to exclude participants of non-European ancestry in human genetics studies. This practice perpetuates existing research disparities and can lead to important and large effect size associations being missed. Here, we conducted genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of 31 serum and urine biomarker quantitative traits in African, East Asian, and South Asian ancestry UK Biobank participants.

The electrocardiogram (ECG) is a commonly used clinical tool that reflects cardiac excitability and disease. Many parameters are can be measured and with the improvement of methodology can now be quantified in an automated fashion, with accuracy and at scale. These measurements can be heritable and thus genome wide association studies inform the underpinning biological mechanisms.

Weighted burden analysis of rare variants was applied to exome sequenced UK Biobank subjects with hyperlipidaemia as the phenotype. There was a tendency for genes on the X chromosome to produce strongly negative SLPs, and this was found to be due to the fact that rare X chromosome variants were identified less frequently in men than women.

Genetic background strongly influenced both baseline refractive development and susceptibility to environmentally-induced myopia. Baseline refractive errors ranged from - 21.2 diopters (D) in 129S1/svlmj mice to + 22.0 D in CAST/EiJ mice. Expression levels of 2,302 genes correlated with the baselineRefractive state of the eye, whereas 1,917 genes. correlated with susceptibility to induced myopia, including 847 genes implicated in the development of human myopia for first time.

Less than 3% of protein-coding genetic variants are predicted to result in loss of protein function. Such predicted loss-of-function (pLOF) variants provide insight into effector transcript and direction of biological effect. We identified 18 new low-frequency or rare (allele frequency) pLOF variants.

GIGYF1 has not previously been identified as a diabetes risk gene. Its product appears to be involved in the modification of insulin signalling. Loss of function (LOF) variants were associated with T2D in GCK and GIGyF1. nonsynonymous variants annotated as probably damaging were associated inGCK and HNF4A.

We quantified the genetic sharing of 25 brain disorders from genome-wide association studies of 265,218 patients and 784,643 control participants. We also identified significant sharing between disorders and a number of brain phenotypes, including cognitive measures. These results highlight the importance of common genetic variation as a risk factor for brain disorders.

Genotype-stratified variance of a quantitative trait could differ in the presence of gene-gene or gene-environment interactions. Genetic markers associated with phenotypic variance are considered promising candidates for follow-up interaction or joint location-scale analyses. As males carry only one copy of the X-chromosome, the inherent sex-genotype dependency could bias the trait-genotypes association.

Chronic facial pain often overlaps with pain experienced elsewhere in the body. Previous studies have focused on a few, selected pain conditions when assessing the degree of overlap. Findings were replicated in the UK Biobank study and the US National Health Interview Survey.

Vitamin D has been shown to be beneficial at reducing the risk of cancer. Studies examining esophageal and gastric cancer have been scarce and findings inconsistent. The UK Biobank cohort was used for this nested case-control study (N = 3732)

The UK Biobank recruited &#8764;500,000 middle-aged participants throughout the United Kingdom in 2006-2010. Anthropometric indexes (height, weight, waist and hip circumference, body composition) and other physiologic characteristics (heel bone mineral density, grip strength, blood pressure, pulse rate) were measured. In white women, non-red meat eaters had lower adiposity (e.g., 4.5% lower body fat in vegan women) and lower systolic and diastolic blood pressure.

Obesity has been positively associated with upper gastrointestinal cancers. Obesity influences hormonal factors, which may play a role in these cancers. We examined anthropometry, body fat and reproductive factors in relation to oesophageal and gastric cancer by subtype/subsite in the UK Biobank cohort.

Apolipoprotein E &#949;4 is the strongest genetic risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) The Translocase of Outer Mitochondrial Membrane-40 (TOMM40) gene maintains cellular bioenergetics, which is disrupted in AD. TOMM40 '650 G versus A carriage is consistently related to neural and cognitive outcomes.

Coincident geographical variation in genotypes and health traits can bias these analyses. Understanding and accounting for this phenomenon will be important when making inference from genotype data in large studies.

People with obesity and a normal metabolic profile are sometimes referred to as having 'metabolically healthy obesity' (MHO) Whether this group of individuals are actually 'healthy' is uncertain. This study aims to examine the associations of MHO with a wide range of obesity-related outcomes.

We investigated a cohort from the MH - GRID (Minority Health Genomics and Translational Research Bio-Repository Database) and tested the association between ARMC 5 variants and blood pressure in black s. Sixteen rare variants were significantly associated with hypertension ( P=0.0402) in the gene-based (optimized sequenced kernel association test) analysis. The presence of the rs116201073 variant was associated with lower blood pressure.

Recent studies have demonstrated the important role played by gut microbiota in regulating bone development. The aim of this study is to assess the causal relationship from gut microbiota to bone development and to identify specific causal bacteria taxa. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistic based two-sample MR analysis was performed.

A major challenge for GWAS in population biobanks is ascertaining disease cases from heterogeneous data sources such as hospital records, digital questionnaire responses, or interviews. We find that hospital record and questionnaire GWAS largely identify similar genetic effects for many complex phenotypes and that combining together both phenotyping methods improves power to detect genetic associations.

 Circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) has been associated with oral and oropharyngeal cancer risk but evidence is inconsistent. Five genetic variants reliably associated with circulating 25OHD were used to create a relative genetic measure of 25O HD. In the GAME-ON study, there was little evidence of a causal association between circulating 25 OHD and oral cancer.

Hyperuricemia is closely associated with insulin resistance syndrome. Whether these two conditions are causally related has long been debated. This study investigated the potential causal nature and direction of the relationship. Reducing insulin resistance could lower the SU level and gout risk, but not the other way around.

Cumulative evidence shows that gut microbiome can influence brain function and behavior via the inflammatory processes. However, the role of interaction between gut dysbiosis and C-reactive protein (CRP) in the development of anxiety and depression remains to be elucidated. In this study, 3321 independent single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) loci associated with gut microbiome were driven from genome-wide association study.

The relationship between the genetic loci that influence mean corpuscular volume (MCV) and those associated with excess alcohol drinking is unknown. We used white British participants from the UK Biobank (n = 362 595) to assess the association between alcohol consumption and MCV. Increasing alcohol consumption by 40 g/week resulted in a 0.30% increase in MCV (P = 0.31)

More than 100,000 genetic variants are classified as disease causing in public databases. True penetrance of many of these rare alleles is uncertain and might be over-estimated by clinical ascertainment. We use data from 379,768 UK Biobank (UKB) participants of European ancestry to assess the pathogenicity of rare variants.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are both common in older age and frequently co-occur. Both illnesses are polygenic, and shared genetic risk factors could explain some of the observed association. We used genotype data to test whether MDD and AD have an overlapping polygenic architecture.

Telomere length is an important indicator of tumor progression and survival for cancer patients. Previous work investigated the associations between genetically predicted telomere. length and cancers. We found that the GRS of leukocyte telitere length was associated with a decreased risk of nine types of cancer.

Cortisol's immunosuppressive, obesogenic, and hyperglycaemic effects suggest that it may play a role in cancer development. We investigated the potential causal association between plasma cortisol and risk of overall and common site-specific cancers using Mendelian randomisation.

Night shift work, behavioral rhythms, and the common  MTNR1B  risk single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) associate with type 2 diabetes. Whether these factors exert joint effects to exacerbate type 2 Diabetes risk is unknown. Among employed participants of European ancestry in the UK Biobank, we aimed to test the cross-sectional independent associations and joint interaction effects of these risk factors.

Hugh Watkins and colleagues meta-analyze data from the UK Biobank. They identify 13 new loci that were genome-wide significant and 243 loci at a 5% false discovery rate.

Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a current pandemic. Studies reported that older people have higher rates of infection and more severe cases. Study aimed to investigate the correlation between genetic and exposure factors.

Shift workers had higher risk of incident and fatal CVD compared with non-shift workers. The risk was higher with longer duration of shift work, in women and in jobs with little heavy manual labour. Current smoking, short sleep duration, poor sleep quality, adiposity, higher glycated haemoglobin and higher cystatin C were identified as the main potentially modifiable mediators.

Study looked at UK Biobank data for adult men and women aged 37-73 years from 22 cities across the UK. Baseline examinations were done between 2006 and 2010. A turning point at a residential density of 1800 units per km 2 identified.

Pathological myopia is one of the leading causes of blindness globally. Lower birth weight within the normal range has been reported to increase the risk of myopia. We sought to estimate the causal effect of BW on refractive error using Mendelian randomisation.

Birth weight has been linked to cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk in adulthood. No consensus has emerged on the threshold of birth weight for the lowest CVD risk. A total of 256,787 participants, who had birth weight data and were free of CVD at baseline, were included from UK Biobank.

 increased cardiorespiratory fitness is related to decreased risk of major chronic illnesses, including cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, and cancer. But its association with colorectal cancer specifically has received very little attention. We examined the relation of cardiorespiratory fitness to coloreCTal cancer in 59,191 UK Biobank participants aged 39-70 years.

A smaller frontopolar cortex (FPC) was associated with both childhood abuse (CA) and higher BMI. White-matter connectivity analysis was conducted to study the structural connectivity between the identified brain region and subdivisions of the hypothalamus in the HCP.

Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) is an important growth factor modulating development, homeostasis, and aging. Whether and how circulating IGF1 concentrations influence early death risk in the general population remains largely unknown. We included 380 997 participants who had serum IGF1 measurement and no history of cancer, cardiovascular disease (CVD), or diabetes at baseline.

Previous studies have suggested that coffee intake may be associated with a reduction in cancer risk. Mendelian randomization (MR) studies can help clarify whether the observed associations are likely to be causal.

 asthma is one of the most common chronic diseases throughout all age groups. We examined the causal effects of various environmental factors on asthma using Mendelian randomization. We found that BMI causally affects the development of asthma and that the adult-onset moderate-to-severe asthma subtype is the most susceptible to causal inference.

The prefrontal cortex is vulnerable to environmental insult. Among other factors, toxins in air pollution have been associated with damage to the prefrontal cortex in children and older adults. We used data from the UK Biobank to assess further associations between an array of toxins and gray matter.

Total brain gray-matter and white-matter volumes can be indicators of overall brain health. We found significant inverse associations between PM 2.5 concentration and total white- Matter volume. If replicated, these findings suggest that air pollution could be a risk factor for neurodegeneration.

From the UK Biobank cohort, 470 804 participants with fish oil supplementation data were included. A higher risk of breast cancer was observed in participants who consumed fatty fish at least two times per week. Findings underscore the need to refine recommendations for nutritional supplements according to inherent diet habits.

Urban residence has been highlighted as an environmental risk factor for schizophrenia and, to a lesser extent, several other psychiatric disorders. Few studies have explored genetic effects on the choice of residence. Cross-sectional retrospective cohort study including genotypes, address history, and geographic distribution of population density in the UK was conducted.

Cross-sectional study used baseline data from the UK Biobank study on 418 656 white European, black and South-Asian participants, aged 40-69 years. Diabetes prevalence was approximately three- to fourfold higher in South- Asian and two- to threefoldHigher in black participants.

Coffee is the most commonly consumed beverage in the world after water. Current evidence of the link between coffee and health outcomes is predominately observational. This study used information from up to 333,214 participants of White-British ancestry in the UK Biobank.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is an established risk factor for colorectal cancer. Recent reports suggest IBD is also a risk factors for prostate cancer (PC) We studied 218 084 men in the population-based UK Biobank cohort, aged 40 to 69 at study entry between 2006 and 2010.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) genetic risk score (GRS) and 925 disease outcomes. GRS-disease outcome associations passing the multiple-testing corrected significance threshold (P)

Refractive errors, particularly myopia, are common and a leading cause of blindness. This study aimed to explore associations between medications and refractive error in an aging adult cohort. Anti-glaucoma drugs were associated with 1 to 2 diopters greater myopic refraction.

Chronic obesity is associated with several complications, including cognitive impairment and dementia. We found that body mass index, waist-to-hip ratio, and body fat percentage were positively related to higher plasma C-reactive protein, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and diabetes.

Study looked at the association between musculoskeletal pain at multiple sites and physical work capacity (PWC) and objectively measured physical activity (PA) Data from a subsample of the UK Biobank were utilised. Increase in number of painful sites was associated with lower PWC, moderate and vigorous PA.

Cross-sectional analysis of participants recruited into UK Biobank in 2006-2010. For people with the same BMI, those who were more active had a lower body fat percentage.

Physical activity reduces cardiovascular disease burden and mortality, although its relationship with cardiac arrhythmias is less certain. The aim of this study was to assess the association between self-reported physical activity and atrial fibrillation (AF), ventricular arrhythias and bradyarrhythmia.

Physical activity has been positively related to malignant melanoma. However, that association may be confounded by ultraviolet radiation. We examined physical activity, grip strength and sedentary behaviour in relation to risk of melanoma using data from a prospective cohort study.

Polygenic scores for psychiatric disorders are associated with nutrient intake in UK Biobank. Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia showed the highest number of associations. The relatively weaker obsessive-compulsive disorder polygenic score showed the greatest effect sizes.

LOAD-PGR is associated with differences in structural brain imaging and cognitive values in a relatively large sample of non-demented, generally healthy adults (UK Biobank) In fully adjusted models, LOAD-PGr was associated with worse fluid intelligence, smaller left hippocampal total and smaller body volumes.

Congenital heart disease is the most common birth defect in newborns. It is the leading cause of death in infancy, affecting nearly 1% of live births. A locus in chromosome 4p16, adjacent to MSX1 and STX18, has been associated with atrial septal defects.

Toxoplasma gondii has been associated with worsened cognitive function in animal models and in humans. The mechanisms by which it might affect cognitive function remain unknown. The parasite does produce physiologically active intraneuronal cysts and appears to affect dopamine synthesis.

Antioxidants users were defined as participants who indicated to regularly use at least one of the following: multivitamins, vitamin C, vitamin E, selenium, and zinc. Median age of antioxidants users and non-users at baseline was 57 years. During 3.9 million person-years and a median follow-up of 11.5 years, 19,491 deaths occurred.

Lipid management typically focuses on levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and, to a lesser extent, triglycerides ( TG) However, animal models and genetic studies suggest that the atherogenic particle subpopulations are both important. The number of particles is more predictive of cardiac events than their lipid content.

Body mass index (BMI), waist and hip circumference are strongly correlated and do not reflect body composition. We examined differences in body composition between body-shape phenotypes defined with ABSI and HI. We used data from the UK Biobank Resource for 15,520 men, 16,548 women with dual-emission X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) measurements.

A history of 2 or more of the following: diabetes mellitus, stroke, myocardial infarction (MI) Life expectancy was substantially lower in people with multimorbidity. At the age of 60 years, a history of any 2 of these conditions was associated with 12 years of reduced life expectancy.

A cross-sectional study of UK Biobank participants aged 40-70 years was performed. Logistic regression was used to calculate the odds of psoriasis, PsA and RA occurrence compared with controls without these conditions by waist circumference. The ORs remained significant after further adjustment for BMI.

Genome-wide association (GWA) analyses were performed utilizing data from the Kaiser Permanente Research Board (KPRB) and the UK Biobank. Patellar tendinopathy cases were identified based on electronic health records. Two single nucleotide polymorphisms located in the intron of the cytochrome c oxidase assembly factor 1 (COA1) gene showed a genome-wide significant association in the meta-analysis.

Mental health score was created using information about depressive symptoms, anxiety, loneliness, and neuroticism. During a median follow-up of 11.3 years (3.7 million person-years), we documented 22,688 CVD cases.

Deletion of a non-imprinted 500kb genomic region at chromosome 15q11.2, between breakpoints 1 and 2 of the Prader-Willi/Angelman locus (BP1-BP2 deletion), has been associated in previous studies with congenital cardiovascular malformations (CVM) Using the UK Biobank (UKB) cohort of ~500,000 individuals, we identified individuals with CVM and investigated the association with deletions at the BP1- BP2 locus.

Microdeletions and duplications in the genomic region 15q11.2 between breakpoints 1 (BP1) and 2 (BP2) are associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. These structural variants are present in 0.5% to 1.0% of the population. It is unknown to what extent this CNV influences brain structure and cognitive abilities.

Short sleep duration has been linked to negative health effects, but is a complex phenotype with many contributing factors, including genetic. We evaluated 27 common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in candidate genes for association with self-reported habitual sleep duration in the UK Biobank. Genetic variation in DAT1 (rs464049) was significantly associated with sleep duration after correction for multiple testing.

Study used the UK Biobank resource, a large cross-sectional study of adults aged 40-69. Dietary factors included portions of fruit and vegetables per day, weekly fish consumption (oily and non-oily), bread type, cups of caffeinated coffee per day and avoidance of dairy, eggs, wheat and sugar.

Study looked at associations of objectively measured cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) and grip strength (GS) with incident heart failure (HF) Higher CRF was associated with 18% lower risk for HF (hazard ratio [HR], 0.82; 95% CI, 0.76-0.88) per 1-metabolic equivalent increment increase. Higher GS was linked to 19% lower incidence of HF risk (HR,0.81; 0.77- 0.86) per 5-kg increase.

Levels of activity are often affected in psychiatric disorders and can be core symptoms of illness. Advances in technology now allow the accurate assessment of activity levels. It remains unclear whether alterations in activity arise from shared risk factors for developing psychiatric disorders, such as genetics.

UK Biobank participants without dementia with Caucasian genetic ancestry completed a Digit Triplets Test of speech-in-noise hearing and hearing with background noise. A genetic risk score for AD (AD-GRS) was calculated as a weighted sum of 23 previously identified AD-related polymorphisms.

An association was recently reported between genetic markers related to high testosterone and increased risk of thromboembolism in men. This work aimed to determine whether endogenous estradiol has a causal role in the disease. The study involved 170 593 unrelated men of White ancestry in the UK Biobank. It found that genetically predicted estradio was inversely associated with the risk of ischemic stroke.

Habitual use of glucosamine supplement to relieve osteoarthritis pain might also be related to lower risks of CVD events.

Among 12,014 genes evaluated in the UK Biobank, we identify 38 associated with PrCa, many replicating in the Kaiser Permanente RPGEH. We report the association of elevated TMPRSS2 expression with increased PrCa risk.

Data was from 147,478 individuals from the UK Biobank (UKB) and 2,905 from the Netherlands Study of Depression and Anxiety (NESDA) Circulating C-reactive protein (CRP) was measured in both cohorts and interleukin-6 (IL-6) in NESDA. Depressive and anxiety symptoms were assessed with self-report questionnaires. Inflammation was associated with core depressive symptoms of low mood and anhedonia. Less consistent associations were found for anxiety.

Spending more time active is associated with health benefits such as improved cardiovascular health and lower risk of all-cause mortality. It is unclear whether these associations differ depending on whether time spent sedentary or in moderate-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) is accumulated in long or short bouts. In this study, we used a novel method that accounts for substitution (i.e., more time in MVPA means less time sleeping, in light activity or sedentary) to examine whether length of sedentary and MVPA bouts associates with all- Cause mortality.

Major depressive disorder (MDD), schizophrenia (SCZ) and bipolar disorder (BP) are common, disabling and heritable psychiatric diseases with a complex overlapping polygenic architecture. Individuals with these disorders, as well as their unaffected relatives, show widespread structural differences in corticostriatal and limbic networks. Structural variation in many of these brain regions is also heritable and polygenic.

Study assessed associations of poor sleep burden, and its trajectory, with delirium risk during hospitalization. About 321 818 participants from the UK Biobank reported sleep traits (sleep duration, excessive daytime sleepiness, insomnia-type complaints, napping) New-onset deliriam (n = 4 775) was obtained from hospitalization records.

Several forms of pulmonary hypertension (PH) disproportionately affect women. Animal and human studies suggest that estradiol exerts mixed effects on the pulmonary vasculature. Whether premature menopause represents a risk factor for PH is unknown.

There is growing evidence of, and biological plausibility for, elevated levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) We tested whether pre-pandemic HDL-C within the normal range is associated with subsequent COVID-19 hospitalisations and death. The effect was linear (p-value for trend 0.001), whereby a 0.2 mmol/L increase in cholesterol was associated with a lower risk.

Brain age is a metric that quantifies the degree of aging of a brain based on whole-brain anatomical characteristics. We found that daily or almost daily consumption of tobacco and alcohol were both significantly associated with increased RBA.

Vitamin D insufficiency and deficiency are common in patients with cardiovascular disease (CVD) We aimed to examine the associations of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] concentrations with all-cause and cause-specific mortality among adult patients with existing CVD. We included 37,079 patients with CVD from the UK Biobank study.

There is some evidence to suggest that levels of sex hormones might influence the etiology of cancers of the pancreas, kidney, and brain, but epidemiologic data are lacking. We evaluated the association of circulating levels of total and free testosterone, and of sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), with the risk of cancers.

Study included 360 403 participants without T2D at baseline from the UK Biobank. Genetic risk was categorised as high (highest quintile), intermediate (quintiles: 2-4), and low (lowest quintile) Sleep scores, including insomnia, snoring, late chronotype, and excessive daytime sleepiness, were categorized as an unfavourable, intermediate, or favourable sleep and circadian pattern.

Excessive Ca intakes have been proposed to associate with vascular calcification and a higher risk of prostate cancer. We investigated the associations of supplemental and dietary Ca intake with mortality using data from 497 828 UK Biobank participants.

Hereditary transthyretin-mediated (hATTR) amyloidosis is an underdiagnosed, progressively debilitating disease. V122I, a common pathogenic TTR mutation, is found in 3-4% of individuals of African ancestry in the United States and has been associated with cardiomyopathy and heart failure. We conducted a phenome-wide association study scanning 427 ICD diagnosis codes.

UK Biobank Study is one of the largest cohort studies of health, enrolling over 500,000 participants aged 40-69 years between 2006 and 2010 across the UK. VI was defined as a habitual distance visual acuity (VA) worse than 0.3 logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (LogMAR)

UK Biobank participants in employment or self-employed at baseline (2006-2010) and with linked COVID-19 data to 31st August 2020. Participants were grouped as neither a health worker nor shift worker (reference category) at baseline, health worker only, shift worker only or both.

Study examined the phenotypic associations and shared genetic aetiology between BPD and various cardiometabolic traits. Several traits were significantly associated with increased risk for BPD. BPD was associated with higher polygenic risk for triglycerides and coronary artery disease.

Population cohort of over 500 000 people recruited from 22 centres across the UK. Participants aged between 40 and 69 years were recruited between 2006 and 2010. Cycling exclusively or in combination with walking was most strongly associated with increased dietary consumption of FV and reduced consumption of red and processed meat.

Harmful alcohol use is a leading cause of premature death and is associated with age-related disease. Biological ageing is highly variable between individuals and may deviate from chronological ageing. biomarkers of biological ageing (derived from DNA methylation or brain structural measures) may be clinically relevant.

Being an evening type is associated with increased mortality in the UK Biobank. Greater eveningness, particularly being a definite evening type, was significantly associated with a higher prevalence of all comorbidities. The associations were strongest for psychological disorders.

The aim of the current study was to investigate the association between diet and handgrip strength. Diet and nutritional data (carotene, retinol, potassium, vitamin C, foliate, vitamin B12 and iron) were collected from UK Biobank.

Dietary data was collected using a 24-h online dietary assessment on two or more occasions (n = 116,806) Two dietary patterns were retained that jointly explained 63% of variation in energy density, free sugars, saturated fat, and fiber intakes. The main dietary pattern was characterized by high intakes of chocolate and confectionery, butter and low-fiber bread.

The built environment might be associated with development of obesity and related disorders. We examined whether neighbourhood exposure to fast-food outlets and physical activity facilities were associated with adiposity in UK adults. Greater density of facilities within 1000 m of home was independently associated with smaller waist circumference and lower BMI and body fat percentage. Living further from a fast- food outlet was weakly associated with waist circumference.

People with unilateral hearing impairment were more likely to report difficulties following conversations in noise, tinnitus presence, feeling depressed, lonely, unhappy, and being in poor health or dissatisfied with health. SRTN/N was associated with increased risk of self-reported poor health by 18%.

Human leukocyte antigens (HLA) have been associated with renal function. This study included 401,307 white British subjects aged 39-73 when they were recruited by UK Biobank.

Cross-sectional analysis of the UK Biobank. 4366 participants (54% female, mean age 61 years) underwent magnetic resonance imaging to assess LV function. Augmentation index (AIx) was used as a measure of arterial stiffness.

Figure 1 shows the size of the human body. Figure 1: The human body is made up of more than 100 million cells. Figure 2: The number of human cells is estimated to be around 100 million.

Major depressive disorder (MDD), schizophrenia (SCZ), and bipolar disorder (BD) have both shared and discrete genetic risk factors. The relationships between such genetic architectures and blood-based markers are, however, unclear. We investigated relationships between polygenic risk scores (PRS) for these disorders and peripheral markers in the UK Biobank cohort.

The "healthy obese" hypothesis suggests the risks associated with excess adiposity are reduced in those with higher muscle quality. Alternative possibilities include loss of muscle quality as people become unwell (reverse causality) or unmeasured confounding. We conducted a cohort study using the UK Biobank (n=452 931) Baseline body mass index ( BMI) was used to quantify adiposity and handgrip strength ( HGS ) used for musclequality. Low genetically predicted HGS was associated with an increased risk of mortality.

Multimorbidity is common among breast cancer survivors, with 32.9% of women experiencing one and 30.1% experiencing two or more chronic health conditions. Hypertension (25.8%), painful conditions (18.3%), and asthma (11.6%) were the three most common co-morbid conditions. 5.3% of participants had current depression.

Seventy-seven occupations were associated with level of alcohol consumption in drinkers. The largest ratios for heavy drinkers were observed for publicans and managers of licenced premises. Clergy, physicists, geologists and meteorologists were least likely to be heavy drinkers. There was evidence of gender-specific outcomes with the proportion of jobs associated with heavy drinking accounted for by skilled trade occupations.

Baseline data were available for 502,643 participants (2006-2010, United Kingdom) Cognitive tests included prospective memory, visual-spatial memory, fluid intelligence, and short-term numeric memory. Sedentary behaviors (television viewing, driving, and nonoccupational computer-use time) were measured at baseline.

Data from the UK Biobank were analysed (n = 487,728, mean follow-up time = 8.9 years) Frequent sleep disturbances were associated with increased risk of all-cause mortality. Mortality risk was highest in those with both diabetes and frequent sleep disturbances.

Study enrolled 328,850 participants aged between 37 and 73 years from the UK Biobank. End of health span was defined by eight events strongly associated with longevity. Compared with poor sleep quality, participants with healthy sleep quality had a 15% reduced risk of terminated health span.

Smoking accelerates the ageing of multiple organs. Few studies have quantified the association between smoking, especially smoking cessation, and brain ageing. A brain age predictor was trained using a machine learning technique in the non-smoker group and then tested in the smoker group. On average, smokers showed a larger BrainAge Gap (+0.304 years, Cohens'd = 0.083) than controls.

There is limited evidence on associations between multiple vascular risk factors (VRFs) and detailed aspects of brain macrostructure and microstructure. Smoking, hypertension, pulse pressure, diabetes, hypercholesterolaemia, body mass index, and waist-hip ratio were examined. A larger number of VRFs was associated with greater brain atrophy, lower grey matter volume, and poorer white matter health.

In many species, the offspring of related parents suffer reduced reproductive success, a phenomenon known as inbreeding depression. In humans, the importance of this effect has remained unclear, partly because reproduction between close relatives is both rare and frequently associated with confounding social factors. Here, using genomic inbreeding coefficients (FROH) for >1.4 million individuals, we show that FROH is significantly associated (p)

Between 2006 and 2010, a total of 354,976 participants (age 40-70 years) in the UK Biobank free of stroke and coronary heart disease were examined and thereafter followed up to 2020. The risk of stroke decreased significantly and linearly with both increasing behavioral CVH score and biological CVH Score.

Adequate dietary protein intake is important for the maintenance of bone health. Data in this area is ambiguous with some suggestion that high protein intake can have deleterious effects. The aim of the current study was to explore the associations of protein intake with bone mineral density (BMD)

Adequate dietary protein intake is important for the maintenance of fat-free mass (FFM) and muscle strength. Our aim was to explore the associations of protein intake with FFM and grip strength. We used baseline data from the UK Biobank (a study of 146,816 participants aged 40-69 years)

Increase in the number of food outlets has been proposed as a key factor driving obesity. This study aimed to investigate the association between the densities of food establishments serving meals, with body mass index. BMIs, WHR, %fat and socioeconomic factors were obtained from 456,079 individuals.

Habitual use of fish oil seems to be associated with a lower risk of all cause and CVD mortality. The association seemed to be stronger among those with prevalent hypertension (P for interaction=0.005).

Greater red and processed meat consumption has been linked to adverse cardiovascular outcomes. However, the impact of these exposures on cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) phenotypes has not been adequately studied. We studied 19,408 UK Biobank participants with CMR data available. Oily fish was studied as a comparator, previously associated with favourable cardiac outcomes.

Study included 495 077 women and men from the UK Biobank study. At baseline, 19.1% of the participants reported regular use of glucosamine supplements. 19 882 all-cause deaths were recorded, including 3802 CVD deaths, 8090 cancer deaths, 3380 respiratory disease deaths and 1061 digestive disease deaths.

There is debate whether body mass index is a good predictor of health outcomes. Different tissues, namely skeletal muscle mass (SMM) and fat mass (FM), may be differentially associated with risk. We studied 356 590 UK Biobank participants aged 40 to 69 years. FM showed a strong positive association with CVD risk.

Previous studies have reported conflicting findings on the association of sleep apnoea with glaucoma. There are limited reports on the link between sleep apNoea and age-related macular degeneration (AMD) Middle-aged and older participants from the UK Biobank and the Canadian Longitudinal Study on Aging were included in this analysis.

A total of 499,159 participants were recruited from the UK Biobank between 2006 and 2010. Severe ISH was based on hospital inpatient records or a death cause of ICD-10 codes X60-X84. Sleep phenotypes, including sleep duration, chronotype, insomnia, sleepiness, and napping, were assessed at the initial assessments.

Vitamin D has numerous anticancer functions, but associations between vitamin D status and colorectal cancer (CRC) risk and survival remain inconclusive. Based on UK Biobank, we prospectively evaluated the associations of season-standardized 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) concentrations with CRC risk. The highest quartile was associated with a 13% (HR, 0.87) lower risk of CRC.

Study looked at associations of physical and demographic factors with Goldmann-correlated intraocular pressure (IOPg) and corneal-compensated intraocular Pressure (Iopcc) in a British cohort. IOPg and IOPcc were both significantly associated with older age, male sex, higher systolic blood pressure (SBP), faster heart rate, greater myopia, self-reported glaucoma, and colder season.

Spectral-domain OCT (SD-OCT) provides high resolution images enabling identification of individual retinal layers. SD OCT measured photoreceptor layer thickness: inner nuclear layer-retinal pigment epithelium (INL-RPE) In multivariate regression models, the total average INL- RPE was observed to be thinner in older aged, females, Black ethnicity, smokers, participants with higher systolic blood pressure, more negative refractive error.

Spousal comparisons have been proposed as a design that can both reduce confounding and estimate effects of the shared adulthood environment. Assortative mating could distort associations when comparing spouses. Analyses using UK Biobank spouse pairs found that WSP genetic association estimates were smaller than estimates from random pairs for height, educational attainment, and BMI.

Histone deacetylase 9 (HDAC9) has been demonstrated as a key regulator of vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) phenotype. HDAC9 is associated with abdominal aortic calcification, myocardial infarction, and ischemic stroke.

Study investigated the causal effects between atrial fibrillation (AF) and kidney function. A genetic predisposition to AF was significantly associated with decreased eGFR.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) patients have enlarged left atria (LA) Previous studies suggested enlarged atria as both cause and consequence of AF. Aim of this study is to investigate the causal association between AF and LA size and function.

Cupping of the optic nerve head, a highly heritable trait, is a hallmark of glaucomatous optic neuropathy. Two key parameters are vertical cup-to-disc ratio (VCDR) and vertical disc diameter (VDD) We show convolutional neural network models can accurately estimate VCDR and VDD for 282,100 images.

The morphometric characteristics of the retinal vasculature are associated with future risk of many systemic and vascular diseases. This requires automated systems that extract quantitative measures of vessel morphology from large numbers of retinal images. This paper presents a deep learning approach for the automatic classification of arterioles and venules.

The aim of the study was to develop a machine-learning glaucoma detection model. The model was trained on macular optical coherence tomography volumes and color fundus photographs. It highlights biological features known to be related to the disease, such as age, intraocular pressure and optic disc morphology.

Wearable devices are increasingly used in research to provide continuous physical activity monitoring. How to effectively extract features remains challenging for researchers. To analyze the generated actigraphy data in large-scale population studies, we developed computationally efficient methods.

The trend towards large-scale studies including population imaging poses new challenges in terms of quality control (QC) This is a particular issue when automatic processing tools such as image segmentation methods are employed. Manual inspection and visual QC of each segmentation result is not feasible at large scale.

Pericardial adipose tissue (PAT) may represent a novel risk marker for cardiovascular disease. We developed a fully automated quality-controlled tool for cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) PAT quantification in the UK Biobank. Larger CMR PAT area was associated with significantly greater odds of diabetes independent of age, sex and body mass index.

Morphological changes in the retinal vascular network are associated with future risk of many systemic and vascular diseases. Analysis of data from large population based studies will help to resolve these uncertainties. A random subset of 800 retinal images from UK Biobank (a large prospective study of 500,000 middle aged adults; where 68,151 underwent retinal imaging) was used to examine the performance of the image quality algorithm.

Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) images play a growing role in the diagnostic imaging of cardiovascular diseases. Full coverage of the left ventricle (LV), from base to apex, is a basic criterion for CMR image quality. A two-stage framework is proposed to identify missing basal and apical slices in measurements of CMR volume.

Good quality of medical images is a prerequisite for the success of subsequent image analysis pipelines. For large population studies such as the UK Biobank, manual identification of artefacts such as those caused by unanticipated motion is tedious and time-consuming. We propose a method to automatically detect the presence of motion-related artefacts in cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) cine images.

Estimates from Mendelian randomization studies of unrelated individuals can be biased due to uncontrolled confounding from familial effects. We show that family-based analyses can reduce such biases. We illustrate how familial effects can affect estimates using data from 61,008 siblings from the Nord-Tr&#248;ndelag Health Study.

SARS-CoV-2 is a rapidly spreading coronavirus responsible for the Covid-19 pandemic. Many factors have been identified as risk factors for SARS- cov-2. Higher BMI, type II diabetes and HbA1c were associated with increased odds. Elevated HDL-C and ApoA-I levels associated with reduced odds.

Vitamin D has been associated with the risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D), but the results are inconsistent. Emerging evidence suggests that vitamin D metabolism is linked to sleep behaviors. We investigated the prospective association between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) and risk of incident T2D.

Gil McVean and colleagues present a new Bayesian analysis framework that exploits the hierarchical structure of diagnosis classifications. Their method displays increased power to detect genetic effects over other approaches and identifies novel associations between classical HLA alleles and common immune-mediated diseases.

The enormous variation in human lifespan is in part due to a myriad of sequence variants, only a few of which have been revealed to date. Since many life-shortening events are related to diseases, we developed a Mendelian randomization-based method combining 58 disease-related GWA studies to derive longevity priors for all HapMap SNPs.

We created a suite of packages to enable analysis of extremely large genomic data sets. The package is accessible through CRAN and GitHub. In this note, we describe the classes and methods implemented in each of the packages that make the suite.

Major depressive disorder is the most common neuropsychiatric disorder, affecting 11% of veterans. We report results of a large meta-analysis of depression using data from the Million Veteran Program, 23andMe, UK Biobank and FinnGen. Transcriptome-wide association study analyses revealed significant associations with expression of NEGR1 and DRD2.

Two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) allows the use of summary association results from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) Some GWAS adjust for heritable covariables in an attempt to estimate direct effects of genetic variants on the trait of interest. In the absence of residual confounding, using covariable-adjusted summary associations for two-sample MR eliminated bias.

The relationship between physical activity and muscular strength has not been examined in detail among older adults. The objective of this study was to examine the associations between physical. activity and hand grip strength among adults aged 60 years and older.

Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the bridging integrator 1 (BIN1) gene indicate the second highest odds-ratios for sporadic AD. Apolipoprotein E (APOE) e4 genotype, which increases the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD), predicted severe COVID-19 infection in one UK Biobank (UKB) cohort.

Until recently, pharmacogenes could not be studied at biobank scale. In EUR, N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) metabolizer phenotype and activity score were associated with simvastatin use. Testing NAT2 alleles may be useful for making clinical decisions regarding the potential benefit of statin treatment.

The tendency to conceive spontaneous dizygotic twins is a complex trait with important contributions from both environmental factors and genetic disposition. The aim of this study was to identify genetic variants influencing multiple births and to genetically correlate the findings across a broad range of traits.

UK Biobank recruited 500,000 participants aged 40-69 y (54.4% women) throughout the United Kingdom in 2006-2010. Blood and urine were collected at recruitment and assayed for more than 30 biomarkers related to cardiovascular diseases, bone and joint health, cancer, diabetes, renal disease, and liver health.

Study aimed to characterize the biomarker profile of sarcopenic vs nonsarcopenic men and women. Thirty-three biomarkers, standardized to sex-specific z-scores, were included in the analysis. Sarcopenia was associated with higher concentrations of phosphate, lipoprotein A, and lower of diastolic blood pressure.

The UK Biobank study has successfully imaged more than 32,000 volunteer participants with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) Each scan is linked to extensive metadata, providing a comprehensive medical survey of imaged anatomy and related health states.

The risk for hypertension decreased as birth weight increased up to approximately 3.80 kg. Compared with the participants with the fourth quintile of birth weight, those with the first quartile had the highest risk. These associations were largely consistent in the stratified and sensitivity analyses. Our findings indicate that lower birth weight is nonlinearly correlated with higher risk of hypertension.

The relationship between birth weight and osteoporosis was inconsistent in previous observational studies. We performed a systematic evaluation to determine the inconsistent relationship and further make causal inference based on the UK Biobank datasets. Birth weight was causally associated not only with three BMD phenotypes but also with the risk of fracture using different Mendelian randomization methods.

Fetal intrauterine growth is influenced by complex interactions between the maternal genes, environment and fetal genes. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of GWAS-identified genetic variants associated with birth weight on fetal growth in 665 children.

Medical research increasingly includes high-dimensional regression modeling with a need for error-in-variables methods. The Convex Conditioned Lasso (CoCoLasso) utilizes a reformulated Lasso objective function and an error-corrected cross-validation. We develop a Block coordinate Descent ConveX Conditioning Lasso. This algorithm separately optimizes the estimation of the uncorrupted and corrupted features.

The association between blood pressure (BP) and bladder cancer (BC) risk remains unclear with confounding by smoking being of particular concern. We found a positive association between systolic BP and BC risk in Swedish cohorts. BP levels were positively associated with muscle-invasive BC (MIBC) but not with non-muscle invasive BC, which could be analyzed in the Swedish cohorts only.

Figure 1 shows the size of the human body. Figure 1: The human body is made up of more than 100 million cells. Figure 2: The number of human cells is estimated to be around 100 million.

Hypertension or elevated blood pressure (BP) is an important risk factor for aortic dissection (AD) Few prospective studies on this topic have been published. We investigated the association between hypertension/elevated BP and AD in 2 cohorts.

Mitochondrial DNA copy number (mtDNA-CN) is a proxy for mitochondrial function and is associated with aging-related diseases. It is unclear how mtDNA- CN measured in blood can reflect diseases that primarily manifest in other tissues. Using the Genotype-Tissue Expression Project, we interrogated relationships between mt DNA-CN measured in whole blood and gene expression in 47 additional tissues.

Elevated blood pressure (BP) is a modifiable risk factor for atrial fibrillation (AF) We tested whether the association between BP and risk of AF is causal, and whether it varies according to individual's genetic susceptibility for AF. We also tested the extent to which specific BP-lowering drugs are expected to reduce this risk.

The recognition of adiposity as a risk factor for gastric cancer is mainly based on traditional anthropometric indices, such as body mass index. We undertook this study to examine body composition and subsequent risk of Gastric cancer. We documented 326 cases of cancer from 474,929 participants over a median follow-up of 6.6 years.

The UK Biobank measured baseline body composition and confirmed cancer diagnosis. For premenopausal women, whole body fat-free mass (WBFFM) was associated with an increased risk of uterine corpus cancer. No association of body composition with ovarian or cervical cancer was observed.

Study aimed to investigate the value of imaging-based multivariable body composition profiling by describing its association with coronary heart disease (CHD), type 2 diabetes (T2D), and metabolic health on individual and population levels.

Study aimed to quantify associations of regional fat mass and fat-free mass with systolic blood pressure. Among 10,260 participants (mean age 49; 96% white), systolic blood pressure was positively associated with visceral android fat. There was no evidence of an association with subcutaneous android or gynoid fat.

Study looked at the relationship between body mass index (BMI) and mortality. An increase of 1 unit in genetically predicted BMI led to a 5% (95% confidence interval 1% to 8%) higher risk of mortality in overweight participants. But a 34% (16% to 48%) lower risk in underweight participants.

Evidence for the impact of body size and composition on cancer risk is limited. This mendelian randomisation study investigates evidence supporting causal relationships of body mass index, fat mass index and fat-free mass index with cancer risk.

We investigated associations between body size and composition, physical activity and sedentary time and serum concentrations of oestradiol (premenopausal women only), testosterone, sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) in UK Biobank. In premenopausal women, higher BMI was associated with a lower concentration of total ostradiol and a higher concentration of SHBG.

Predicting a person's age using brain features can aid the detection of abnormalities in the ageing process. Existing studies on such "brain age prediction" vary widely in terms of their methods and type of data.

Brain imaging can be used to study how individuals' brains are aging, compared against population norms. This can inform on aspects of brain health; for example, smoking and blood pressure can be seen to accelerate brain aging.

Between-individual variability in brain structure is determined by gene-environment interactions. Magnetic resonance imaging studies have revealed thinner cortices and smaller subcortical volumes in patients with schizophrenia. Group-level comparisons may mask considerable within-group heterogeneity, which has largely remained unnoticed in the literature.

Seasonal differences in mood and depressive symptoms affect a large percentage of the general population. SAD affects up to 3% of the world's population, and it tends to be more predominant in females than males. The brainstem has been shown to be affected by photoperiodic changes. Longer Photoperiod days are associated with larger brainstem volumes and lower depressive scores.

A previous genome-wide association study found three genetic loci to increase the risk of Brugada Syndrome (BrS) Since the effect of these loci in the general population is unknown, we aimed to investigate the effect on electrocardiogram (ECG) parameters and outcomes. A cohort of 6,161 individuals with available digital ECGs was genotyped and followed for a median period of 13 [IQR 12.6-13.4] years. Data on outcomes were collected from Danish administrative healthcare registries.

Cross-sectional studies of carotid artery atherosclerosis in 24,822 Chinese adults from the China Kadoorie Biobank and 2579 Europeans from the UK Biobanks. Carotid intima-media thickness (cIMT) findings in Chinese were compared with a European population (mean age 62 years) Overall, the mean cIMT in Chinese was 0.70 mm (SD 0.16) and increased with age.

Cam morphology was more prevalent in males than females (15.4% and 1.8% respectively) In males, cam morphology was associated with rHOA [OR 3.20 (95% CI 2.41-4.25)], JSN [1.53 (1.24-1.88)], and acetabular dysplasia (AD) Neither pincer morphology nor AD showed any associations with hip pain.

COVID-19 is a disease that has shown to have outcomes that vary by certain socio-demographic and socio-economic groups. It is increasingly important that an understanding of these outcomes should be derived not from the consideration of one aspect, but by a more multi-faceted understanding of the individual.

"Deep learning" (DL) techniques such as Multilayer Perceptrons (MLPs) and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have not been comprehensively tested. We analyzed a total of five phenotypes: height, bone heel mineral density, body mass index, systolic blood pressure, and waist-hip ratio. For height, a highly heritable phenotype, all methods performed similarly, although CNNs were slightly but consistently worse.

UK Biobank recruited 503,325 persons aged 40-69 years. Participants completed questionnaires, including pain, lifestyle and environment factors. Prevalence of chronic pain and most regional musculoskeletal pains were all within 2% of that in NCDS.

Cannabis is known to produce acute, transient psychotic-like experiences. It is unclear whether cannabis disproportionately increases the risk of specific types of psychotic experiences and whether genetic predisposition influences the relationship between cannabis use and psychotic experiences. In this cross-sectional study of 109,308 UK Biobank participants, we examined how schizophrenia polygenic risk modulates the association between self-reported cannabis use.

There were significant associations between mood disorder features and 'any cardiovascular disease' Individuals with features of mood disorder taking psychotropic medication were significantly more likely than controls not on psychotropics to report myocardial infarction. Psychotropic medication may also be a risk factor for cardiometabolic disease.

High VAT-high LF and high VAT-low LF were associated with prevalent atherosclerosis. Low VAT- high LF was not. In the UK Biobank, only high VAT -low LF remained associated with CVD after multivariable adjustment.

Cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) is associated with mortality and cardiovascular disease. We develop and validate a novel framework to estimate CRF from heart rate response to low-risk personalised exercise tests. We apply the method to examine associations between CRF and health outcomes.

About 4% of the study population were diagnosed with a chronic inflammatory disorder. The most common inflammatory disorder was psoriasis, and the least common was SLE (n=654). SLE showed the strongest association with multiple (relative risk) risk of cardiometabolic diseases.

Risk prediction models currently recommended by clinical guidelines are typically based on a limited number of predictors with sub-optimal performance across all patient groups. Data-driven techniques based on machine learning might improve the performance of risk predictions by agnostically discovering novel risk predictors and learning the complex interactions between them.

5065 consecutive UK Biobank participants underwent CMR using cine balanced steady-state free precession imaging at 1.5 T. With advancing age, end-diastolic TA diameter became larger and posterior MV leaflet angle smaller in both sexes.

Population-based, case-control study investigated cardiovascular risk factors and body composition in Norwegian adults with achondroplasia. Participants had lower age-adjusted mean blood pressure, total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and triglycerides compared with controls.

It is uncertain to what extent established cardiovascular risk factors are associated with venous thromboembolism (VTE) This study included individual participant data mostly from essentially population-based cohort studies from the Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration and the UK Biobank. Older age, smoking, and adiposity were consistently associated with higher VTE risk.

Excessive coffee consumption can lead to unpleasant sensations such as tachycardia and heart palpitations. We used information from up to 390,435 European ancestry participants in the UK Biobank, aged 39-73 y. Participants with essential hypertension, angina, or heart arrhythmia were more likely to drink less caffeinated coffee.

There was a distinct increase in the number of CVD-related deaths in the UK Biobank population at the beginning of the COVID-19 outbreak. The shortage of medical resources for hospital care and stress reactions to the pandemic might have partially contributed to the excess mortality.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) can be a powerful tool for detecting global patterns of interaction. We show how a linear regression of the PRS on E in a sample of cases can be used to efficiently estimate the interaction parameter. We applied the proposed method to investigate interactions between a PRS and epidemiologic factors on breast cancer risk in the UK Biobank.

We conducted a two-sample Mendelian randomization study to investigate the associations between genetic predisposition to thyroid dysfunction and 22 site-specific cancers. Genetically predicted thyroid dysfunction was associated with breast cancer, with similar patterns of associations in the Breast Cancer Association Consortium and UK Biobank. The role of TSH and hypothyroidism for thyroid cancer needs further exploration.

Study was an observational cohort study investigating the UK Biobank. Lower alcohol use was observationally associated with a higher risk of prevalent CKD or incident ESKD. However, the genetic risk of CKD was significantly associated with lower alcohol use, suggesting reverse causation.

Gallstone disease (GSD) is associated with a higher risk of gastrointestinal (GI) cancer. However, it is unclear whether the associations are causal.

Blood homocysteine level and related vitamin levels are associated with various health outcomes. We aimed to assess causal effects of blood homocy Steine, folate, and cobalamin on kidney function in the general population by performing Mendelian randomization analysis.

Physical activity and television watching affect kidney function in the general population. A higher degree of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity was associated with a higher eGFR. A longer time spent watching television was significantly associated with higher prevalence of CKD. The other sedentary behaviors yielded inconsistent results.

Genetic instruments for positive affect, life satisfaction, depressive symptoms, and neuroticism were introduced from a previous genome-wide association study meta-analysis of European individuals. In summary-level MR with the CKDGen data, depressive Symptoms were a significant causative factor for kidney function impairment. A genetic predisposition for positive Affect was significantly associated with better kidney function.

Study was an observational cohort study mainly based on the UK Biobank. Median relative macronutrient intake composition at baseline was 35% fats, 15% protein, and 50% carbohydrates. Higher relative protein intake was significantly associated with a lower risk of incident ESKD.

We aimed to investigate the causal effects of n-3 and n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) on the risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) through Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis. Higher genetically predicted eicosapentaenoic acid and dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid levels were significantly associated with a lower risk of CAD both in the allele-score-based and summary-level MR analyses.

Study comprised 1,211 European participants tested positive for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and 387,079 participants who were either untested or tested negative between 16 March 2020 to 31 May 2020. Higher BMI, WC, HbA1c and lower HDL-cholesterol were associated with higher odds of COVID-19 infection.

As adult height is linked to various health outcomes, further investigation of its causal effects on kidney function later in life is warranted. This study involved a cross-sectional observational analysis and summary-level Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis.

Obesity traits are causally implicated with risk of cardiometabolic diseases. It remains unclear whether there are similar causal effects of obesity traits on other non-communicable diseases. We constructed sex-specific genetic risk scores (GRS) for three obesity traits.

We studied 493 280 UK residents enrolled in the UK Biobank cohort study. Of 27 729 deaths, 20.4% were primarily attributed to CVD, 53.6% to cancer and 5.0% to infection. As cardiovascular multimorbidity increased, the proportion of cardiovascular and infection-related deaths was greater.

The gastric epithelium is often exposed to injurious elements. Failure of appropriate healing predisposes to ulcers, hemorrhage, and ultimately cancer. CD36 expresses on corpus ECs, on PC basolateral membranes, and in gastrin and ghrelin cells.

Study followed 130,473 UK Biobank participants aged 60-69 y (baseline 2006-2010) for &#8804;8.3 y ( n  = 2974 deaths) Current smokers and individuals with recent or disease-associated weight loss were excluded, yielding a "healthier agers" group. Being overweight with a higher WHR was associated with substantial excess mortality.

Commuters were selected from the UK Biobank cohort if they completed assessment centre visits between 2006 and 2016. Participants were categorised as 'inactive' (car only) or 'active' commuters (any other mode(s), including walking, cycling and public transport). Transitions between categories were defined between pairs of visits.

Asthma is a complex disease that is reportedly associated with insomnia. However, the causal directionality of this association is still unclear. We used asthma and insomnia-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics.

Liver fat was able to be measured as the MRI proton density fat fraction (PDFF) with an overall success rate of 96.4%. The overall hepatic fat distribution was centred between 1-2%, and was highly skewed towards higher fat content. The mean PDFF was 3.91%, and median 2.11%.

It is thought that alcohol intake and body mass index (BMI) interact supra-additively to modulate the risk of cirrhosis, but evidence for this phenomenon is limited. We investigated the interrelationship between alcohol and BMI on the incidence of Cirrhosis morbidity for participants of the United Kingdom Biobank study.

Characteristics of the environment influence health and may promote physical activity. We explored the associations between neighborhood environmental characteristics and physical activity in adults from UK Biobank. We found participants living in areas with higher concentrations of air pollution recorded and reported lower levels of physical activity and those in rural areas and more walkable areas had higher levels of activity.

Atypical depression (AD) characterized by reversed neurovegetative symptoms is associated with a more pernicious course and a different sociodemographic, lifestyle, and comorbidity profile. AD was associated with female gender, unhealthy behaviours, more lifetime deprivation and adversity, higher rates of psychiatric disorders and obesity.

The ABO gene contains three major alleles that encodes different antigens; A, B, and O, which determine an individual's blood group. Previous studies have primarily focused on identifying associations between ABO blood groups and diseases risk. Here, we sought to test for association between A BO genotypes and a large set of common inflammatory and cardiovascular diseases.

UK Biobank participants of White ethnicity aged 40-69 years old underwent autorefraction. Logistic regression analysis was used to calculate the odds ratio (OR) for myopia or high myopia associated with a diagnosis before age 17 years of each of nine febrile illnesses.

Higher childhood body mass index (BMI) has been associated with an increased risk of multiple sclerosis (MS) We examined whether childhood BMI has a causal influence on MS, and whether this putative effect is independent from early adult obesity and pubertal timing. Findings were replicated using the UK Biobank.

Autistic individuals experience significantly elevated rates of childhood trauma, self-harm and suicidal behaviour and ideation. Is this purely the result of negative environmental experiences, or does this interact with genetic predisposition? In this study we investigated if a genetic predis position for autism is associated with childhood trauma using polygenic scores.

Haematopoietic clones with acquired mutations become common with advancing age and can lead to blood cancers1-10. In this long-lived Japanese population, mosaic chromosomal alterations were detected in more than 35.0% (s.m., 1.4%) of individuals older than 90 years. Three different mutational precursors of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (including trisomy 12, loss of chromosomes 13q and 13q, and copy-neutral loss of heterozygosity) were between two and six times less common among Japanese individuals.

Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) is a non-atherosclerotic cause of myocardial infarction (MI) typically in young women. We undertook a genome-wide association study of SCAD (Ncases = 270/Ncontrols = 5,263) and identified an association of rs12740679 at chromosome 1q21.2.

Diurnal preference for evening time has been associated with increased odds for current depression and a number of indices of the disorder. Previous work has also suggested that larger hippocampal volume may be protective against depression.

The study sample was a subset of the UK Biobank Resource, 164,770 adults aged between 40 and 69 years. Hearing loss was defined as speech recognition in noise in the better ear poorer than 2 standard deviations below the mean. Current smokers were more likely to have a hearing loss than non-smokers. For both smoking and passive smoking, there was evidence of a dose-response effect.

Elevated CRP levels were associated with a 22% increased lung cancer risk per 1 SD increase. Positive associations were observed in small cell lung cancer. When added to a risk model of lung cancer, CRP improved the performance of model as long as 8 years among current smokers.

Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) has been implicated in several malignancies. Few studies have examined multiple cancers simultaneously. We conducted a prospective analysis between IGF-1 and incident total and 19 site-specific cancers among 412,645 individuals.

There is strong epidemiological evidence that circulating insulin-like growth factor-I is associated with a higher risk of several cancers. Little is known about its association with non-cancer outcomes. We investigated associations of circulating IGF-I with risk of 25 common conditions, other than cancer, in a large British cohort.

Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and testosterone have been implicated in prostate cancer aetiology. We investigated the associations of circulating IGF-I, sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), and total and calculated free testosterone concentrations with prostate cancer incidence and mortality. For prospective analyses, risk was estimated using multivariable-adjusted Cox regression in 199 698 male UK Biobank participants.

 Epidemiologic studies evaluating associations between sex steroid hormones and colorectal cancer risk have yielded inconsistent results. To elucidate the role of circulating levels of testosterone, and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), we conducted observational and Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses. In the observational analysis, there was little evidence that total testosterone was associated with cancer risk.

Evidence is mixed on whether cholesterol plays a role in the pathogenesis of glioma. We explored the associations between circulating lipids and gli cancer risk in three prospective cohorts.

This study investigated the causal relation between circulating phylloquinone (vitamin K 1 ) concentrations and type 2 diabetes. We used data from three studies: the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC)-InterAct case-cohort study, Diabetes Genetics Replication and Meta-analysis (DIAGRAM) and the UK Biobank.

Gastrointestinal cancers show an unexplained male predominance. Few prospective studies have investigated sex hormones and gastrointestinal cancer risk. This study aimed to determine the impact of circulating sex hormones on risk of esophageal, gastric, and colorectal cancers in men and women.

Circulating vitamin C concentrations have been associated with several cancers. Little is known about the causal direction of the associations. This study aims to explore the potential causal relationship between circulating vitamin C and risk of five most common cancers in Europe.

 Observational studies strongly supported the association of low levels of circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) and cognitive impairment or dementia in aging populations. However, randomized controlled trials have not shown clear evidence that vitamin D supplementation could improve cognitive outcomes.

Breast cancer is the most common solid organ malignancy and most frequent cause of cancer death among women worldwide. Previous research has yielded insights into its genetic etiology, but there remains a gap in the understanding of genetic factors that contribute to risk. National Cancer Institute's "Up for a Challenge" competition provided an opportunity to further elucidate the genetic basis of the disease.

Non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) incidence has been dramatically increasing worldwide. Psoralen, a known photocarcinogen, is naturally abundant in citrus products. High citrus consumption was not associated with an increased risk of NMSC in our UKBB sample.

High citrus consumption may increase melanoma risk. Little is known about the biological mechanisms of this association, or whether it is modified by genetic variants. We conducted a genome-wide analysis of gene-citrus consumption interactions.

Hearing relies on mechanically gated ion channels present in actin-rich stereocilia bundles at the apical surface of cochlear hair cells. Clrn2 clarinet/clarinet mice exhibit a progressive, early-onset hearing loss, with no overt retinal deficits.

Liver dysfunction, growth hormone and testosterone deficiency, innate immunity, anemia, macrocytosis, and insulin resistance were associated with MDD incidence in a large community-based cohort. All 30 significant associations with extreme laboratory test results were directionally consistent with an increased MDD risk.

Covid-19 has rapidly infected millions of people worldwide. Recent studies suggest that racial minorities and patients with comorbidities are at higher risk. In this study, we analyzed the effects of clinical, regional, and genetic factors on Covid- 19 positive status.

We sought to determine the relationship between age-related clonal hematopoiesis (CH) and chronic kidney disease (CKD) CH, defined as mosaic chromosome abnormalities (mCA) and/or driver mutations, was identified in 5449 (2.9%) eligible UK Biobank participants. CH was negatively associated with glomerular filtration rate estimated from cystatin-C (eGFR.cys; &#946; = -0.75, P = 2.37 × 10-4)

There are few examples of robust associations between rare copy number variants (CNVs) and complex continuous human traits. We present a large-scale CNV association meta-analysis on anthropometric traits in up to 191,161 adult samples from 26 cohorts. The study reveals five CNV associations at 1q21.1, 3q29, 7q11.23, 11p14.2, and 18q 21.32. The discovered CNVs are recurrent and rare (0.01-0.2%), with large effects on height, weight, and body mass index.

Coffee and tea are the major contributors of caffeine in the diet. Evidence points to the premise that caffeine may benefit cognition. We examined the associations of habitual regular coffee or tea and caffeine intake with cognitive function whilst additionally accounting for genetic variation in caffeine metabolism.

UK Biobank captured self-reported coffee consumption and cancer-registry recorded incident digestive cancers. Risk of every type of digestive cancer was investigated in association with coffee consumption by dose-response and by coffee type.

This study examines the causal genetic associations between cognitive ability and physical health. BMI, systolic blood pressure, coronary artery disease and type 2 diabetes showed negative associations with cognitive ability. Higher educational attainment predicted lower BMI and higher blood pressure. The lack of evidence for causal associations could be explained by weak instrumental variables.

Rare copy number variants (CNVs) are associated with risk of neurodevelopmental disorders. These include schizophrenia, autism spectrum disorder and intellectual disability. The effects of many individual CNVs in carriers without neuro developmental disorders are not yet fully understood.

The UK Biobank is a large-scale biomedical resource, containing sociodemographic and medical information. We identified participants who either self-reported or were identified from a nurse-led interview, having suffered a stroke or a TIA. Hypertension, smoking, higher WHR, lower alcohol consumption and diabetes were all more common in people with cerebrovascular disease.

Collider bias can induce associations between two or more variables which affect the likelihood of an individual being sampled. The optimal way to mitigate the problem is to use appropriate sampling strategies at the study design stage.

Previous studies using additive genetic models failed to identify robust evidence of associations between colorectal cancer risk variants and survival outcomes. Here, we tested all currently known CRC-risk variants in a discovery analysis of 5675 patients from a Scottish cohort. We found that the TT genotype of the intron variant rs7495132 in the CRTC3 gene was associated with poorer CRC-specific survival.

Body mass index (BMI) and waist circumference (WC) are measures of general and central obesity, respectively. Both have been shown to be associated with cancer. However, there is insufficient evidence of their combined association with the risk of cancer.

Prostate cancer is known to have a strong genetic basis and is influenced by both common and rare variants. We conducted an investigation of 81 094 men from the UK Biobank, including 3568 prostate cancer cases. The absolute risk of prostate cancer for HOXB13, BRCA2, ATM, and CHEK2 P/LP/D carriers ranged from 9% to 56%.

A genetic risk score (GRS) for fatty liver disease influences the risk of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) Three genetic variants were combined into a risk score ranging from 0 to 6 for risk-increasing alleles. A higher GRS was associated with an increase in plasma alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level of 26% in those with score 5 or 6.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is associated with a five-fold increased risk of ischemic stroke. Current risk stratification tools (CHA 2 DS 2 -VASc) do not include family history or genetic risk. We hypothesized that we could improve stroke prediction in patients with AF by incorporating polygenic risk scores.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) may soon be used to predict inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) risk in prevention efforts. We leveraged exome-sequence and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array data from 29,358 individuals in the multiethnic, randomly ascertained health system-based BioMe biobank. Lower predictive power for non-Europeans was observed.

Aspirin and ibuprofen have been reported to reduce the mortality rate. Omeprazole can increase mortality. The FDA has approved only one drug, remdesivir, for the treatment of COVID-19.

Diseases with the same onset profile are genetically more similar. This similarity was not explained by disease categories, co-occurrences or disease cause-effect relationships. Two of the four disease clusters had an increased risk of occurrence from ages 20 and 40.

A prolonged T-peak-to-Tend (Tpe) interval on the electrocardiogram is an independent predictor of increased arrhythmic risk. Tpe changes with heart rate are even stronger predictors. We identify 32 loci for resting Tpe and 3 for Tpe response to exercise and recovery. Sex-specific analyses indicated seven additional loci.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified 190 loci associated with maternal or fetal effects on birth weight. Numerous monogenic developmental syndromes are associated with birth weights at the extreme ends of the distribution. We found birth weight GWAS single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) fall closer to such genes than expected.

We analyzed the effects of the common BMI-increasing melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) rs17782313-C allele with a minor allele frequency of 0.22-0.25 on cardiovascular disease outcomes. We additionally analyzed whether potential associations were modified by sex or explained by changes in body mass index. We confirmed the BMI- Increasing effects of +0.22 kg/m 2 per additional copy of the C allele.

Drugs used for nervous system disorders were associated with poorer cognitive performance. Drugs used for non-nervous system conditions also showed significant negative association with cognitive score. Only a few medications and health supplements showed association towards a positive effect on cognitive function.

The National Health Service England classifies individuals as eligible for lung cancer screening using two risk prediction models, PLCOm2012 and Liverpool Lung Project-v2. No study has compared the performance of lung cancer risk models in the UK.

We developed a central processing and graphics processing unit (CPU and GPU) accelerated Fast and Powerful Heritability Inference (FPHI) approach that linearizes likelihood calculations. We calculated for 60 regional and 1.3 × 10 5 voxel-wise traits in N = 1,206 twin and sibling participants from the Human Connectome Project.

Polygenic scores now explain approximately 10% of the variation in educational attainment. This is because of passive gene-environment correlation, whereby the correlation between offspring and parent genotypes results in an association between offspring genotypes and the rearing environment. Adoptees' genotypes were less correlated with their rearing environments because they did not share genes with their adoptive parents.

Accurate estimation of genetic correlation requires large sample sizes and access to genetically informative data, which are not always available. Cheverud's conjecture asserts that the use of phenotypic correlations as proxies for genetic correlations is appropriate. Empirical evidence of the conjecture has been found across plant and animal species.

The Regional Vulnerability Index (RVI) was developed toquantify brain similarity by comparing individual white matter microstructure, cortical gray matter thickness and subcortical gray matter structural volume measures. We tested the specificity of the RVI approach for major depressive disorder (MDD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD)

The UK Biobank cohort is a population-based cohort of 500,000 participants recruited in the United Kingdom between 2006 and 2010. Compared with the general population, participants were less likely to be obese, to smoke, and to drink alcohol on a daily basis. At age 70-74 years, rates of all-cause mortality and total cancer incidence were 46.2% and 11.8% lower, respectively, in men and 55.1% lower in women.

Of UK Biobank participants included, 802 were admitted to hospital with and/or died from COVID19 (323 deaths and 479 hospitalisations) After analyses were adjusted for sociodemographic and lifestyle factors, a higher risk of COVID-19 was observed for pre-frail and frail individuals compared to those classified as robust.

Population-based biobanks provide opportunities for generating effective therapeutic hypotheses and understanding the genomic role in disease predisposition. We apply truncated singular value decomposition (DeGAs) to matrices of summary statistics derived from genome-wide association analyses across 2,138 phenotypes measured in 337,199 White British individuals in the UK Biobank study. We systematically identify key components of genetic associations and contributions of variants, genes, and phenotypes.

Obesity is a major risk factor for a wide range of cardiometabolic diseases. The impact of specific aspects of body morphology remains poorly understood. We combined the GWAS summary statistics of fourteen anthropometric traits from UK Biobank through principal component analysis.

Multiple genes have been associated with monogenic Parkinson's disease and Parkinsonism syndromes. Mutations in PINK1 (PARK6) have been shown to result in autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson's Disease. In the past decade, several studies have suggested that carrying a single heterozygous Pink1 mutation is associated with increased risk for Parkinson's.

Circulating biomarkers have been previously associated with atherosclerosis-related risk factors, but the nature of these associations is incompletely understood. We found a total of 15, 9, 21, 22, 26, 24, and 26 biomarkers strongly associated with coronary artery disease, ischemic stroke, atrial fibrillation, type 2 diabetes, systolic blood pressure, body mass index, and waist-to-hip ratio.

Open-science and team-based scientific discovery offer hope for tackling some of the difficult challenges associated with managing, modeling, and interpreting of large, complex, and multisource data. Translating raw observations into useful information and actionable knowledge depends on effective domain-independent reproducibility, area-specific replicability, data curation, analysis protocols, and organization.

 REGENIE is a novel machine-learning method for fitting a whole-genome regression model. It is substantially faster than alternatives in multi-trait analyses while maintaining statistical efficiency. We demonstrate the accuracy and computational benefits of this approach using the UK Biobank dataset.

Jian Yang and colleagues explore the uses and abuses of heritability estimates derived from pedigrees and from GWAS SNPs. They make recommendations for best practice in future applications of SNP-based heritability.

Spatial Confidence Sets (CSs) on clusters found in thresholded Cohen's d effect size images. CSs convey information about magnitude and reliability of effect sizes that is usually given separately in a t-statistic and effect estimate map.

Dealing with confounds is an essential step in large cohort studies to address problems such as unexplained variance and spurious correlations. UK Biobank is a powerful resource for studying associations between imaging and non-imaging measures.

Previous studies have revealed the involvement of coffee and tea in the development of stroke and dementia. Little is known about the association between coffee/tea consumption and the risk of stroke, dementia, and poststroke dementia. This prospective cohort study included 365,682 participants from the UK Biobank.

Genomic contribution to adverse health sequelae in babies born very preterm. We studied 488 parent-offspring trios using Illumina Infinium OmniExpress Arrays. We identified 14 de novo CNVs, representing a mutation rate of 2.9%.

Visceral adipose tissue (VAT) has been suggested as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular and metabolic disease. Yet the contribution of genetics to VAT, as well as its disease-related effects, are largely unexplored. Here, we develop sex-stratified, nonlinear prediction models for VAT mass using the UK Biobank cohort. Predicted VAT mass was associated with increased risk of hypertension, heart attack/angina, type 2 diabetes and hyperlipidemia.

South Asians had a higher risk for CVD mortality (HR: 1.42, 95% CI 1.07 to 1.89) and incidence, but a decreased risk for cancer mortality. Compared with individuals without T2D, both white Europeans and South Asians with T2d had aHigher risk for all-cause mortality (1.59) and CVD incidence and mortality.

Major depressive disorder emerges from the complex interactions of biological systems that span genes and molecules through cells, networks, and behavior. Establishing how neurobiological processes coalesce to contribute to depression requires a multiscale approach. We examine anatomical and functional correlates of depression and negative affect across three population-imaging datasets.

Classic LMMs assume independence between random effects, which can be violated, causing bias. We introduce a generalized GREML that explicitly estimates the covariance betweenRandom effects. CORE GREML outperforms the conventional GREML, providing variance estimates free from bias due to correlated random effects.

Hearing impairment is ranked fifth globally for years lived with disability. Yet hearing aid use is low among individuals with a hearing impairment. No studies have investigated a wide range of variables, this has limited intervention development.

The extent of major health consequences of COVID-19 is unclear, including risks of severe secondary infections. We conducted a matched cohort study based on 445,845 UK Biobank participants registered in England. Life-threatening secondary infections were defined as diagnoses of severesecondary infections with high mortality rates. The follow-up period was limited to 3 months after the initial CO VID-19 diagnosis.

SARS-CoV-2 is known to preferentially target older subjects and those with pre-existing conditions. Case fatality rate for COVID-19 grows exponentially with age in all countries tested.

Most studies of severe/fatal COVID-19 risk have used routine/hospitalisation data without detailed pre-morbid characterisation. We investigated demographic, social (education, income, housing, employment), lifestyle (smoking, drinking, body mass index), biological (lipids, cystatin C, vitamin D), medical (comorbidities, medications) and environmental (air pollution) data from UK Biobank. Age, male sex and Black ethnicity, as well as comorbidity and oral steroid use at enrolment were associated with increased risk of death.

Genome-wide association studies have identified several loci associated with increased susceptibility and severity for COVID-19. However, it is not clear whether these associations are genetically determined or not. We used a Phenome-Wide Association (PheWAS) approach to investigate the role of genetically determined CO VID-19 susceptibility on disease related outcomes.

Excessive alcohol intake is associated with 5.9% of global deaths. 7.6% of deaths can be attributed to alcohol intake. Previous studies identified a significant interaction between genotypes of the galanin (GAL) gene with anxiety and alcohol abuse in different male populations.

We conducted a phenome-wide analysis of loci with heterogeneous effects across African, Admixed-American, Central/South Asian, East Asian, European and Middle Eastern participants. We identified 82 independent genomic regions mapping variants showing genome-wide significant (GWS) associations.

We investigate polygenic risk score (PRS)-specific pleiotropy across 16 cancers in European ancestry individuals. Two pairs show bidirectional associations; the melanoma PRS is positively associated with oral cavity/pharyngeal cancer and vice versa.

Active living approaches seek to promote physical activity and reduce sedentary time across different domains. There is little information on how movement behaviours in different domains relate to each other. We used compositional data analysis to explore associations between active commuting and patterns of movement behaviour during discretionary time.

Higher waist-to-hip ratio and BMI are independently positively associated with albuminuria. Adiposity-albuminuria associations appear strong among people with normal HbA1c, as well as people with pre-diabetes or diabetes.

People with 'CVD' or 'Type 2 diabetes + CVD' more likely to report simultaneous low physical activity, high TV viewing and poor sleep duration than those without disease. Non-diet behaviours were clustered, with people with CVD and Type 2 diabetes changing their diet in the past 5 years.

Genetic and hormonal factors have been suggested to influence human sexual orientation. Previous studied proposed brain differences related to sexual orientation and that these follow cross-sex shifted patterns. How genetic factors relate to brain structural variation remains largely unexplored.

Mapping gene-by-sex (G×S) interactions remains a challenge likely because the magnitude of such an interaction is typically and exceedingly small. Traditional genome-wide association techniques may be underpowered to detect such events, due partly to the burden of multiple test correction. Here, we developed a local Bayesian regression (LBR) method to estimate sex-specific SNP marker effects.

Efforts to link variation in the human genome to phenotypes have progressed at a tremendous pace in recent decades. We discuss the natural next steps in data collection and methodology development. We focus on what can be gained by analyzing genotype and phenotype data from close relatives.

Segmenting anatomical structures in medical images has been successfully addressed with deep learning methods for a range of applications. However, this success is heavily dependent on the quality of the image that is being segmented. A commonly neglected point in the medical image analysis community is the vast amount of clinical images that have severe image artefacts.

 Classification of whole-brain functional connectivity MRI data with convolutional neural networks (CNNs) has shown promise, but the complexity of these models impedes understanding which aspects of brain activity contribute to classification. We introduce a stochastic encoding method in an ensemble of CNNs to classify functional connectomes by sex.

Study used whole-body magnetic resonance (MR) images from UK Biobank (UKBB) and German National Cohort (GNC) MR imaging studies. Liver, spleen, left and right kidney, and pancreas were segmented manually on all 400 data sets, providing labeled ground truth data for training of deep learning models.

There is significant interest in the development and application of deep neural networks (DNNs) to neuroimaging data. Here, we compared the performance of three DNNs and a classical machine learning algorithm ( kernel regression) in predicting phenotypes from whole-brain resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) patterns.

Dementia has been associated with COVID-19 prevalence, but whether this reflects higher infection, older age of patients, or disease severity remains unclear. We investigated a cohort of 12,863 UK Biobank community-dwelling individuals > 65 years old.

Vitamin B6, B12, and folate have an effect on brain structure, especially among depressed people who follow a specific diet. Depression was more prevalent, and intake of vitamin B6 and B12 was lower among vegetarians, while non-vegetarians had a lower intake of folate. Vitamin B12 intake was positively associated with right pallidum.

Study used data on 251,125 individuals of white British ancestry from the UK Biobank. Found observational and genetic evidence for an association between depression and BMI. Carrying 10 additional BMI increasing alleles was associated with 0.24 standard deviation (SD) higher BMI among depressed individuals compared to 0.20 SD (95%CI 0.19-0.21) in controls.

Study employed data from 502,641 participants in the UK Biobank. Out of 58,833 participants with asthma and 13,462 with AD, the prevalence of DAS was 11.7% and 2.7%. DAS increased among participants with either asthma or AD, being highest within patients having both. Asthma and AD were associated with increased DAS during mid-adult years.

Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) can occur in patients who are ineligible for routine ultrasound screening. A simple AAA risk score was derived and compared with current guidelines used for ultrasound screening of AAA. Components of the risk score were age, weight, antihypertensive and cholesterol-lowering medication use, height and diastolic blood pressure.

UK Biobank study collected detailed dietary data using a web-based self-administered 24 h assessment tool, the Oxford WebQ. Top contributors to energy, saturated fat, and free sugars were broadly similar by sex and education category. Wine, beer, and fruit juices were the top beverage contributors to overall energy intake.

Oxford WebQ is a web-based 24-h dietary assessment method used in UK Biobank. The food composition table used to calculate nutrient intakes has been replaced with the UK Nutrient Databank. 35 new nutrients were incorporated in the updated version.

We scanned for deviations in chromosome X genotyping array intensity data in a population-based survey of 196,219 UK Biobank men. We detected 12 (0.006%) men with mosaic chromosome X gains &#8805; 2 Mb and found no evidence for mosaic X loss. This level of detection substantially lower than for autosomes or other sex chromosomes.

Mendelian randomization (MR) has developed into an established method for strengthening causal inference and estimating causal effects. However, genetic instruments remain controversial, as horizontal pleiotropic effects can introduce bias into causal estimates. We introduce MR using Gene-by-Environment interactions (MRGxE) as a framework capable of identifying and correcting for pleiotsropic bias.

Heterogeneity in the phenotypic mean and variance across populations is often observed for complex traits. Here, we introduce a novel concept of genotype-by-population (G × P) interaction where population is defined by the first and second ancestry principal components (PCs) We applied a reaction norm model fitting each of 70 complex traits with significant SNP-heritability.

 Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic movement disorder that produces a variety of characteristic movement abnormalities. The ubiquity of wrist-worn accelerometry suggests a possible sensor modality for early detection of PD symptoms and subsequent tracking of PD symptom severity.

New method, Ward clustering, identifies Internal Node branch length outliers using Gene Scores. The objective of WINGS is to identify groups of phenotypes, or "clusters," sharing a core set of genes enriched for mutations in cases.

Hundreds of thousands of genetic variants have been reported to cause severe monogenic diseases. The probability that a variant carrier develops the disease (termed penetrance) is unknown for virtually all of them. The clinical utility of common polygenetic variation remains uncertain.

Previously generated genetic risk scores (GRSs) for type 1 diabetes (T1D) have not captured all known information at non-HLA loci or, particularly, at HLA risk loci. We aimed to more completely incorporate HLA alleles, their interactions, and recently discovered non- HLA locs into an improved T1D GRS. The improved GRS, the T1d GRS2, is highly useful for classifying adult incident diabetes type and improving newborn screening.

Head and neck cancer (HNC) is the eighth most common cancer in the UK. Over 12,000 new cases every year. The incidence of HNC is predicted to increase by 33% by 2035. Risk modelling produces personalised risk estimates for specific diseases.

Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) carries a poor prognosis, but earlier tumor detection would improve survival. We aimed to develop and externally validate a risk prediction model based on exposure to readily available risk factors to identify high-risk individuals. Candidate predictors were age, sex, tobacco smoking, alcohol consumption, body mass index (BMI), education, cohabitation, physical exercise, and employment.

Risk prediction models for a range of heterogeneous CVDs, including coronary artery disease (CAD), stroke, deep vein thrombosis (DVT), and abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) The models incorporate various blood biomarkers and comorbidities to improve both individual and population stratification.

 multivariable risk prediction models have been developed to asses an individual's risk of developing specific cancers. Such models can be used in a variety of settings for prevention, screening, and guiding investigations and treatments.

Dietary interventions might have potential to protect against age-related cognitive decline and neurodegeneration. There are associations between some nutrients, food groups, dietary patterns, and some domains of cognition. We observed associations between better general cognitive ability and higher intakes of fish, and unprocessed red meat; and moderate intakes of fibre, and milk.

A total of 416,588 participants (54% women) from the UK Biobank were included in the present study. High intake of red meat and processed meat was associated with an increased risk of lung cancer. However, the consumption of fruits, vegetables, breakfast cereals, and dietary fiber was inversely associated with the risk.

UK Biobank recruited 77 004 men and women between 2006 and 2010. Dietary intake (Oxford WebQ) was used to calculate Recommended Food Score (RFS), Healthy Diet Indicator (HDI) and Mediterranean Diet Score (MDS) Higher RFS was also associated with lower risk of CVD mortality and MI.

Disinhibition is a prominent feature of multiple psychiatric disorders. It has been associated with poor long-term somatic outcomes. Modifiable lifestyle factors including diet and moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) may be associated with disinhibition. Their contributions have not previously been quantified among middle-aged/older adults.

UK Biobank is an open access prospective cohort of 500 000 men and women. Information on the frequency of consumption of main foods was collected at recruitment with a touchscreen questionnaire. The objectives of the present paper are to describe the repeatability of the touchscreen questionnaire in participants.

The 93-single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) GPRS was associated with a higher BMI. The findings were broadly similar using WC as the outcome. These data suggest that the benefits of reducing the intake of fats may be more important in individuals with high genetic risk for obesity.

Study investigated 105,592 participants (47,308 men and 58,284 women) aged &#8805; 40 years. Dietary intake of total fatty acids, polyunsaturated fatty acids and saturated fatty acids was assessed at baseline. Over a median follow-up of 3.2 years, 832 men and 872 women developed disabling hearing impairment.

Few population-based studies of dietary habits have assessed depression and fluid intelligence. In total, 814 independent loci were utilized to calculate the individual polygenic risk score (PRS) for 143 dietary habit-related traits. For interaction analysis, we detected that OLFM1 interacted with champagne/white wine in depression, while  SYNPO2 interacted with coffee type in fluid Intelligence.

Low-carbohydrate diets are becoming increasingly popular, although their dietary quality outside of clinical studies is unknown. Both NCHO and LCHO groups consumed significantly more high-sugar, high-fat snacks.

Vegetarian diets are defined by the absence of meat and fish. Differences in the intake of other foods between meat-eaters and low or non-meat eaters are also important to document. We examined intakes of high-protein foods (meat, poultry, fish, legumes, nuts, vegetarian protein alternatives, dairy products, and eggs)

Dietary magnesium is integral to bone and muscle physiology. Relationship between magnesium and skeletal muscle and bone health has not been investigated concurrently to date. We analysed cross-sectional associations between dietary magnesium and muscle mass, grip strength, and bone density.

The fat type consumed is considered a risk factor for developing obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2D) This study aimed to investigate associations between dietary patterns with varying proportions of SFAs, MUFAs, or PUFAs and obesity, abdominal obesity, and self-reported T2D incidence. Two dietary patterns, DP1 and DP2, were identified.

Dietary intake and blood concentrations of vitamins E and C, lycopene, and carotenoids have been associated with a lower risk of incident (ischemic) stroke. Here, we investigated the associations between genetically influenced antioxidant levels in blood and ischemic stroke using Mendelian randomization. For absolute antioxidants levels, the odds ratios (ORs) ranged between 0.94 (95% CI, 0.85-1.05) for vitamin C. For metabolites, ORs ranged between 1.01 ( 95% CI,. 0.98-1,03) for retinol and 1.12 (95! CI,0.88- 1.42) for Vitamin E.

Diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) is a widely recognized neuroimaging technique to evaluate the microstructure of brain white matter. The objective of this study is to establish an improved automated DWI marker for estimating white matter integrity and investigating ageing related cognitive decline. The concept of Wasserstein distance was introduced to help establish a new measure: difference in distribution functions (DDF)

The identification of robust endotypes-disease subgroups of clinical relevance-is fundamental to stratified medicine. We hypothesized that HLA-C&#8727;06:02 status is the major genetic determinant of psoriasis. We compared demographic, environmental, and clinical variables of interest with those in people with a negative HLA.

Resting-state functional magnetic resonance (rsfMRI) work has revealed changes in static connectivity related to age, sex, cognitive abilities and psychiatric symptoms. Little is known how these factors may alter the information flow. Dynamic graphical models (DGMs) can yield novel insight into directed functional connectivity.

The diversity in our genome is crucial to understanding the demographic history of worldwide populations. We have yet to know whether subtle genetic differences within a population can be disentangled. Here we apply dimensionality reduction methods to biobank-derived genomic data of a Japanese population.

Brain activity is a dynamic combination of the responses to sensory inputs and its own spontaneous processing. Such brain activity is continuously changing whether or not one is focusing on an externally imposed task. Previously, we have introduced an analysis method that allows us to model task or rest brain activity as a dynamic sequence of distinct brain networks.

We conducted genome-wide association analyses of asthma and body mass index (BMI; weight (kg)/height (m)2) among 305,945 White British subjects recruited into the UK Biobank in 2006-2010. We identified a genome- wide-significant cross-phenotype association at rs705708 (asthma odds ratio = 1.05, 95% confidence interval: 1.03, 1.07; P = 7.20 × 10-9; and BMI &#946; = -0.065, 95’s confidence intervals: 0.087, 0.042) The association resides on 12q13.2.

Genes underneath signals from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for kidney function are promising targets for functional studies, but prioritizing variants and genes is challenging. By GWAS meta-analysis for creatinine-based estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) from the Chronic Kidney Disease Genetics Consortium and UK Biobank (n = 1,201,909), we expand the number of eGFRcrea loci.

Body composition (fat, skeletal muscle and bone mass) is an important determinant of overall health and risk of endocrine disorders such as type 2 diabetes and osteoporosis. Although diet and physical activity are strongly implicated, body composition is also heritable. We conducted a discovery genome-wide association study on 31 phenotypes.

Study aims to discover new genetic loci associated with heart rate from Exome Chip meta-analyses. Heart rate measured from either elecrtrocardiograms or pulse recordings. Lead variants in four of the novel loci are non-synonymous variants in genes C10orf71, DALDR3, TESK2 and SEC31B.

24,130 patients diagnosed with depression were compared to 120,366 matched individuals without such a diagnosis. The median age at the time of the depression diagnosis was 62.0 years, and most of the patients were female (63.63%). 129 medical conditions were found to be significantly associated with a prior diagnosis of depression.

In midlife, transitions in social networks can relate to new leadership roles at work or becoming a caregiver for aging parents. Social behavior, personality predisposition, and demographic profile all have intimate links to the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC)

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is characterized by low mood, psychomotor slowing and increased levels of the personality trait neuroticism. Factors also associated with schizophrenia (SCZ) It is possible that some cases of MDD may have a substantial genetic loading for SCZ. The presence of SCZ-like MDD subgroups would be indicated by an interaction between MDD status and polygenic risk ofSCZ on cognitive, personality and mood measures.

Clonal hematopoiesis (CH) results from somatic genomic alterations that drive clonal expansion of blood cells. Somatic gene mutations associated with hematologic malignancies have been associated with myeloid malignancy. mosaic chromosomal alterations (mCAs) associated with lymphoidmalignancies. These genetic alterations can be readily detected in clinical sequencing panels and used with blood count parameters to identify individuals at high risk.

Vitamin D status varied among different ethnic groups and by season and geographical area within the UK. Male sex, abnormal body mass index, non-white ethnic backgrounds, smoking and being more socioeconomically deprived were associated with higher odds of vitamin D deficiency. Increasing age, taking vitamin D supplements and drinking alcohol was associated with lower odds of deficiency. These findings support the vitamin D supplementation recommendations of Public Health England.

Physical activity is a critical component of overall health and quality of life. There is a natural decline in physical activity associated with the aging process. Establishing normative trends of physical activity in aging populations is essential to developing public health guidelines.

 Eveningness is associated with a number of negative health outcomes and risk and prevalence for psychiatric disorder. Our understanding of the anatomical substrates of diurnal preference is limited. The current study used Voxel-Based Morphometry to compare grey matter volume in a large sample of healthy adults.

A genetic predisposition to higher waist-to-hip ratio adjusted for BMI associates with increased risk for type 2 diabetes. We identified four variants in the gene ACVR1C which independently associated with reduced WHRadjBMI. Carriers of these variants exhibited reduced percent abdominal fat in DEXA imaging.

Osteoporosis is caused by an imbalance of osteoclasts and osteoblasts in the bone marrow. Recurrent somatic mutations that lead to an expanded population of mutant blood cells is termed clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) We found CHIP to be associated with increased incident osteoporotic diagnoses and decreased bone mineral density.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic autoimmune condition in which inflammation plays a central role that also affects the white matter. We used statistical genetics techniques to assess whether having genetically elevated white matter hyperintensity (WMH) volume was associated with increased MS risk. Whole genome analysis did not reveal any overlap of risk between the traits.

GPRS-obesity was associated with BMI (&#946;:0.54 kg.m-2 per standard deviation (SD) increase in GPRS, [95% CI: 0.53; 0.56]; P = 2.1 × 10-241) among inactive individuals. There was a significant interaction between GPRs-ob obesity and objectively measured PA. No significant interactions were found for commuting mode (car, public transport, active commuters) The adiposity benefits of high PA and low sedentary behaviour may be particularly important in individuals with high genetic risk for obesity.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a heritable and highly debilitating condition. It is commonly associated with subcortical volumetric abnormalities, the most replicated of these being reduced hippocampal volume. In this study, we provide some evidence that hippocampusal volume and MDD may share genetic architecture in a subgroup of individuals.

Physical activity (PA) has beneficial effects on many alcohol related outcomes. Data suggest PA may offset the association between alcohol consumption and mortality. Study examined the joint associations of PA and alcohol on all-cause, CVD and cancer mortality.

We analysed the UK Biobank Cohort study linked to Hospital Episode Statistics. Surgery patients were matched with controls who did not have bariatric surgery. Annual and cumulative hospital costs were assessed for the surgery and control groups. Compared with controls, surgical patients had significantly higher inpatient expenditures.

In men, height was positively associated with incidence risk of all-cause cancer and at five sites. In women, it was associated with breast, melanoma, lymphatic, non-Hodgkin lymphoma and all- Cause cancer. The strength of the association did not differ by IGF-1 concentration.

TV viewing is associated with an increase in body mass index (BMI) as well as overall cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. UK Biobank recruited across 35 centres in the UK between 2006 and 2010. Each additional hour of television viewing per day was associated with a 0.54 increase in BMI.

The incidence of thyroid cancer is rising, and relatively little is known about modifiable risk factors for the condition. Observational studies have suggested a link between adiposity and thyroid cancer, but these are subject to confounding and reverse causality. Here, we used data from the UK Biobank to investigate whether adiposity causes benign nodular thyroid disease and differentiated thyroid cancer.

Pregnancy history was reported by women participating in UK Biobank between 2006 and 2010 at age 40-69 years. Cardiac structure and function were assessed by magnetic resonance (CMR) steady-state free precession imaging at 1.5 Tesla. Carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) measurements were taken for both common carotid arteries using a CardioHealth Station. No significant differences were evident in women who reported pregnancy loss compared to other groups.

Study looked at 279,030 participants from the UK Biobank. Handgrip strength and walking pace were the exposures. All-cause mortality, CVD mortality and incidence were the outcomes.

The study employed data from the UK Biobank participants: 495,327 in cross-sectional (2006-2010) and 16,875 in longitudinal (2014-2016) analyses. Musculoskeletal pain was diagnosed by the participants' reports of back, knee, hip, or neck/shoulder pain.

Fitness was estimated using a submaximal cycle ergometer test. All results were adjusted for sociodemographic, lifestyle and dietary factors, body composition, and morbidity at baseline. High level of fitness was associated with a greater incidence of atrial fibrillation and prostate cancer.

Every one mmol/mol increase in genetically proxied HbA1c was associated with an 11% higher CHD risk (HR 1.11, 95% CI 1.05, 1.18) There was no evidence favouring a non-linear relationship over a linear one. In individuals without diabetes mellitus, lowering average blood glucose levels may reduceCHD risk in a dose-dependent way.

The otherwise common HLA haplotype DR15-DQ6 is rare, and highly protective. Adult-onset type 1 diabetes is now known to represent more overall cases than childhood onset. We assessed the proportion of type 1. diabetes cases presenting through the first 50 years of life with DR15. DQ6 compared with population controls.

Over 500,000 participants were recruited to the UK Biobank cohort. Alcohol consumption was self-reported as pints beer/cider, glasses champagne/white wine, glasses of red wine, and measures of spirits per week. All-cause mortality, cardiovascular events, ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular events, and cancer were studied.

 Pharmacogenetics studies how genetic variation leads to variability in drug response. Guidelines for selecting the right drug and right dose for patients based on their genetics are clinically effective, but are widely unused. Without measurements of genotype, physicians and patients may adjust dosage in a manner that reflects the underlying genetics.

UK Biobank is an international health resource enabling research into the genetic and lifestyle determinants of common diseases of middle and older age. Public Health England's Second Generation Surveillance System is a centralized microbiology database covering English clinical diagnostics laboratories.

Study looked at 334,507 white British participants from the UK Biobank cohort. Found that 1 additional year of education was significantly related to higher total amount of alcohol intake. Causal relations with total amount and frequency of alcohol drinking were more evident among women.

Colorectal cancer is a common malignancy worldwide. Physical activity and a healthy diet contribute to energy balance. We suggest that individual differences in energy balance can be explained by genetic polymorphisms involved in mitochondria.

Between 2006 and 2010, 357,419 participants with genetic and complete dietary data from the UK Biobank were enrolled and prospectively followed up to 2017. The genetic risk score (GRS) was calculated on the basis of 424 variants associated with T2D risk.

Study aimed to estimate the causal effect of education on refractive error using regression discontinuity analysis. The analysis sample comprised 21,548 UK Biobank participants born in a nine-year interval centered on September 1957. In OLS analysis, the ROSLA 1972 reform was associated with a -0.29 D.

Lead is pervasive, although lead exposure has fallen in response to public health efforts. Lead is positively associated with cardiovascular disease and hypertension. We used separate-sample instrumental variable analysis with genetic instruments.

Obesity may prevent people from being in paid work through poor health or through social discrimination. We studied genetic variants robustly associated with body mass index (BMI) to investigate its causal effects on employment. Socioeconomic indicators also investigated were hours worked, household income, educational attainment and Townsend deprivation index.

Mendelian randomization analyses were performed to infer phenome-wide effects of free testosterone on 461 outcomes in 161,268 males from the UK Biobank study. Lifelong increased free testosterone had beneficial effects on increased bone mineral density, and decreased body fat. It had adverse effects on decreased HDL, and increased risks of prostate cancer, androgenic alopecia, spinal stenosis, and hypertension.

Thyroid hormone is essential for optimal human neurodevelopment and may modify the risk of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) The brain structures involved are unknown and it is unclear if the adult brain is also susceptible to changes in thyroid status.

 Randomized trials of salt restriction have consistently demonstrated that decreasing salt consumption lowers blood pressure. Results of observational studies of salt intake and cardiovascular disease have been conflicting. We examined the within-person variability in spot urinary sodium excretion and its impact on associations with systolic blood pressure and risk of incident cardiovascular disease.

Existing statistical methods become rate limiting for large biobank-scale sequencing studies with correlated samples. We propose efficient Mixed-model Association tests for GEne-Environment interactions. The computational complexity is dramatically reduced in a whole genome GEI analysis.

There is an increasing need for conducting genetic genealogical searches efficiently. Computationally, this task amounts to identifying shared DNA segments between a query individual and a very large panel containing millions of haplotypes. The existing algorithm (Durbin's Algorithm 5) can only identify set-maximal matches.

In genome-wide association studies, ordinal categorical phenotypes are widely used to measure human behaviors, satisfaction, and preferences. We propose an efficient mixed model association test, proportional odds logistic mixed model (POLMM) POLMM is computationally efficient to analyze large datasets with hundreds of thousands of samples.

Polygenic risk scores are emerging as a potentially powerful tool to predict future phenotypes of target individuals. 5,000 individuals with first-degree relatives of target Individuals can achieve a prediction accuracy similar to that of around 220,000 unrelated individuals.

Principal component analysis (PCA) of genetic data is routinely used to infer ancestry and control for population structure in various genetic analyses. However, conducting PCA analyses can be complicated and has several potential pitfalls. These pitfalls include capturing linkage disequilibrium (LD) structure instead of population structure, and projected PCs that suffer from shrinkage bias.

Asthma is one of the most common chronic diseases affecting both children and adults. We report a genome-wide association meta-analysis of 69,189 cases and 702,199 controls. We find 88 asthma risk variants at 56 loci, 19 previously unreported.

Study looked at C-reactive protein (CRP), genetic, and phenotypic data from the UK Biobank. CRP levels were significantly higher in patients with depression relative to control subjects. The association between depression and increased CRP level was substantially reduced.

Anxiety and depression show substantial genetic overlap and share pharmacological treatments. We investigated self-reported current medication use in UK Biobank participants of European ancestry. Data on prescribed medication could be effective for inferring case status.

Hormone concentrations were measured in serum collected in 2006-2010, and in a repeat subsample (N ~ 5000) in 2012-13. Incident cancers were identified through data linkage. Cancer risk was positively associated with testosterone in post-menopausal women.

BRCA1/2 mutation carriers had a 2- to 3-fold increased risk for EC. Highest risk observed for the rare subgroups of serous-like and p53-abnormal EC in BRCa1 mutation carriers.

Data were obtained from 398 628 UK Biobank prospective cohort study participants (40-69 years) recruited between 2006 and 2010. Hazard ratios between 24-hour sodium excretion were estimated from spot urinary sodium concentrations across incident CVD and its components. In restricted cubic splines analyses, there was little evidence for an association. An inverse association was observed with heart failure, but that was no longer apparent.

Genomic structural equation modelling (SEM) outperforms the other methods in accurately estimating conditional genetic effects and their standard errors. We apply Genomic SEM to fertility data in the UK Biobank and partition the genetic effect into female and male fertility and a sibling specific effect. We identify a novel locus for fertility and genetic correlations between fertility and educational attainment.

Parental genetic effects may be defined as the influence of parental genotypes on offspring phenotypes over and above that which results from the transmission of genes from parents to their children. Given the relative paucity of large-scale family-based cohorts around the world, it is difficult to demonstrate parental genetic effects on human traits, particularly at individual loci. In this manuscript, we illustrate how parental. genetic effects can be estimated at individual Loci in principle using large.-scale genome-wide association study (GWAS) data.

The effective sample size (ESS) is a metric used to summarize in a single term the amount of correlation in a sample. It is of particular interest when predicting the statistical power of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) based on linear mixed models. We introduce an analytical form of the ESS for mixed-model GWAS of quantitative traits.

Study assesses evidence of causality for various CVDs in a 2-sample Mendelian randomization framework. Estimates potential reduction in the prevalence of these diseases attributable to long-term population shifts in systolic blood pressure (SBP)

Non-additive genetic variance for complex traits is traditionally estimated from data on relatives. It is notoriously difficult to estimate without bias in non-laboratory species, including humans. Here, we jointly estimate the proportion of variance explained by additive (h SNP  2 ) and dominance (&#948; SNP 2 ) genetic variance in a single analysis model. We first show by simulations that our model leads to unbiased estimates.

Gene-&#949; is a new approach for identifying statistical associations between sets of variants and quantitative traits. We reformulate the genome-wide SNP-level null hypothesis to identify spurious small-to-intermediate SNP effects and classify them as non-causal. We identify enriched genes in biologically relevant pathways.

 differences in the content and distribution of body fat and ectopic lipids may be responsible for ethnic variations in metabolic disease susceptibility. The aim of this study was to examine the ethnic distribution ofBody fat in two separate UK-based populations.

People from South Asian and black minority ethnic groups are disproportionately affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. It is unknown whether deprivation mediates this excess ethnic risk. The excess risk could be substantially reduced with population level policies targeting material deprivation.

Serum urate is associated with BMD and may be a protective factor. However, the exact association and mechanism are still unclear. We performed a genome-wide gene-environmental interaction study to explore the interaction effects between gene and urate on BMD.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified many genetic risk variants for cancers. We constructed a site-specific polygenic risk score (PRS) for each of these nine cancers using their GWAS-identified risk variants. Using PRS, 63.0% of the participants could be classified as having an over twofold elevated risk for at least one cancer.

It has been hypothesised that nonsyndromic cleft lip/palate (nsCL/P) and cancer may share aetiological risk factors. Several genes (e.g., CDH1, AXIN2) have been implicated in the aetiologies of both phenotypes. Using a primary sample of 5,048 OC/OPC cases and 5,450 controls of European ancestry and a replication sample of 750 cases and 336,319 controls from UK Biobank we estimate genetic overlap.

The polygenic risk score (PRS) of sex hormone traits was calculated from individual-level genotype data of the United Kingdom (UK) Biobank cohort. We observed positive association between SHBG and the frequency of alcohol consumption in middle-aged males and females. In addition, estradiol was positively associated with alcohol consumption (b = 0.0128, p = 1.96 × 10-8) in middle aged males. Finally, Tenascin R (TNR) (rs34633780) interacting with total testosterone for fluid intelligence was identified.

The course of COVID-19 varies from asymptomatic to severe in patients. One possibility is that genetic variation is partly responsible for the highly variable response. We evaluated how well a genetic risk score based on chromosomal-scale length variation and machine learning classification algorithms could predict severity of response.

A small number of circulating proteins have been reported to be associated with breast cancer risk. Herein, we attempted to identify novel protein biomarkers for breast cancer via the integration of genomics and proteomics data. In the Breast Cancer Association Consortium (BCAC), with 122,977 cases and 105,974 controls of European descendants, we evaluated the associations of the genetically predicted concentrations of >1,400 circulating proteins.

The predictive utility of polygenic scores is increasing, and many polygenic scoring methods are available, but it is unclear which method performs best. Eight polygenic score methods were tested: p-value thresholding and clumping (pT+clump), SBLUP, lassosum, LDpred1, LDPred2, PRScs, DBSLMM and SBayesR.

Study included 409   692 adults of European ancestry. 2 were associated with T1DM and 3 with T2DM, after adjusting for age, sex, body mass index, smoking, alcohol use, and population structure. Common host genetic effects may play a role in the molecular mechanism linking TB and diabetes.

High milk intake has been associated with cardio-metabolic risk. We conducted a Mendelian Randomization (MR) study to obtain evidence for the causal relationship. We used the lactase persistence (LCT-13910 C > T, rs4988235) variant as an instrumental variable.

Erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP) results from pathogenic variants in ferrochelatase (FECH) EPP results from coinheriting a rare pathogenic variant in trans of a common hypomorphic variant c.315-48T>C (minor allele frequency 0.05). The estimated prevalence of EPP derived from the number of diagnosed individuals in Europe is 0.00092%, but this may be conservative due to underdiagnosis.

Prostate cancer is a leading cause of cancer death. We aimed to identify novel biochemical factors for prostate cancer incidence and mortality in UK Biobank. Prostate cancer incidence was positively associated with circulating vitamin D, urea and phosphate concentrations and inversely associated with glucose, total protein and aspartate aminotransferase.

Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) is the second most common type of liver cancer. Studies in women and men have reported higher circulating oestradiol is associated with increased ICC risk. No observational studies have examined the associations between exogenous hormone use and reproductive factors.

Exome sequencing explored protein-altering variants and their consequences in 454,787 participants in the UK Biobank study. We identified 12 million coding variants, including 1 million loss-of-function and around 1.8 million deleterious missense variants. When these were tested for association with 3,994 health-related traits, we found 564 genes with trait associations at P &#8804; 2.18 × 10-11.

The UK Biobank is a prospective study of 502,543 individuals. The data include 198,269 autosomal predicted loss-of-function (LOF) variants. Nearly all genes (more than 97%) had at least one carrier with a LOF variant.

Integration of DNA sequencing data with electronic health records (EHRs) could enhance our understanding of the contribution of rare genetic variation to human disease. The clinical impact of rare loss-of-function variants has yet to be determined for most genes.

It is estimated that up to 10% of cancer incidents are attributed to inherited genetic alterations. It was theorized that ultra-rare variants partially account for the missing heritable component.

Cigarette smoking is the leading cause of preventable morbidity and mortality. Genetic variation contributes to initiation, regular smoking, nicotine dependence, and cessation. We present a Fagerstr&#246;m Test for Nicotine Dependence (FTND)-based genome-wide association study in 58,000 smokers.

Ethnic inequalities in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) hospitalizations and mortality have been widely reported, but there is scant understanding of how they are embodied. The UK Biobank prospective cohort study comprises approximately half a million people who were aged 40-69 years at study induction.

 Mechanisms underlying adiposity-colorectal cancer (CRC) association are incompletely understood. Using UK Biobank data, we investigated the role of C-reactive protein (CRP), hemoglobin-A1c (Hb a1c) and (jointly) sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and testosterone, in explaining this association.

Method for performing Mendelian randomization studies using only summary statistics. We apply the approach to the UK Biobank cohort to investigate the causal role of sleep disturbance on HbA1c.

Family history contains information on disease status of relatives, adding valuable information about the probands' health problems and risk of diseases. Incorporating data from FH is a cost-effective way to improve statistical evidence in genetic studies. The development of sequencing technology calls for new powerful methods to detect disease associations.

Short and long sleep durations have adverse effects on physical and mental health. Most studies are based on self-reported sleep duration and health status. This longitudinal study aims to investigate objectively measured sleep duration.

Weighted burden analysis can incorporate variants with different frequencies and annotations into a combined test for association between a gene and a phenotype. There are marked differences in optimal weighting schemes between genes, both with respect to allele frequency and to annotation. It seems helpful to weight rare variants more highly than common ones and to give loss of function variants higher weights.

We leveraged a large prospective cohort, the UK-Biobank (UKBB,  N  ~ 397,000), and studied associations of prior use of all level-4 ATC drug categories with COVID-19 diagnosis and severity. We observed strong and highly consistent protective associations with statins. We also observed protective associations by influenza, pneumococcal, and several other vaccines.

There is a well-established relationship between cannabis use and psychosis, although the exact nature of this relationship is not fully understood. Recent studies have observed significant genetic overlap between a diagnosis of schizophrenia and lifetime cannabis use. This study aimed to examine whether genetic overlap also occurs for subclinical psychosis (schizotypy) and cannabis use, as well as examining the phenotypic association.

Previous observational evidence has suggested an association between smoking and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) We used observational techniques followed by Mendelian randomization to explore whether smoking is a causal factor in the development of IBD and its subtypes.

 contactins are a family of genes involved in development of the nervous system. They are implicated in a wide range of psychological, psychiatric and cardiometabolic conditions. There is growing evidence to suggest that shared biology (including genetic variation) is likely to contribute to comorbidity between mental and physical illness.

Weight loss or lower body mass index (BMI) could be an early symptom of Alzheimer disease (AD) When this begins to emerge is difficult to estimate with traditional observational data. We leveraged variation in genetic risk for late-onset AD risk to estimate the causal effect of AD on BMI.

Wearing eyeglasses more than 8 hours per day may be protective against SARS-CoV-2 infection. Men are 1.24-times more likely to be infected than women.

Study looked at all UK Biobank participants who underwent imaging up to December 2015. Brain, cardiac and body magnetic resonance, and dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry images from the first 1000 participants were reviewed systematically by radiologists for PSIFs. Thereafter, radiographers flagged concerning images for radiologists' review.

Women, people aged over 65 years, underweight people and those with rheumatoid arthritis were most likely to have sarcopenia. Overweight, obesity, as well as a self-reported higher intake of energy, protein, vitamins (B12 and B9) and minerals (potassium, calcium and magnesium) were associated with lower odds.

We present a comprehensive statistical framework to analyze data from genome-wide association studies of polygenic traits. In contrast with standard approaches, our method can leverage sophisticated multivariate algorithms but makes no parametric assumptions about the unknown relation between genotypes and phenotype.

Diet and familial factors have a major role in the development of cardiovascular disease (CVD) It remains unclear whether familial predisposition to CVD modifies the association between dietary factors and CVD. In this prospective cohort of the UK Biobank, 462,155 CVD-free participants were included in 2006-2010 and followed for CVD incidence until 2020.

Genome-wide studies often exclude family members, even though they are a valuable source of information. We identified parent-offspring pairs, siblings and couples in the UK Biobank and implemented a family-based DNA-derived heritability method. Compared to estimates from unrelated individuals, total heritability increased from 10 to 27%.

UK Biobank, an observational cohort recruited between 2006 and 2010. Of 401,268 participants in total, 13,331 tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and 2282 had severe infection by end of January 2021. In unadjusted models, participants with &#8805;2 family members with diabetes were more likely to be tested positive. The excess risk for severe infection was no longer significant after adjusting for demographics.

Population stratification (PS) is a major confounder in genome-wide association studies. To adjust for PS, principal component analysis (PCA)-based ancestry prediction has been widely used. We propose two alternative approaches: bias-adjusted projection (AP) and online ADP (OADP)

Haplotype phasing is the estimation of haplotypes from genotype data. We present a fast, accurate, and memory-efficient method that scales to large-scale SNP array and sequence data. The method uses marker windowing and composite reference haplotypes to reduce memory usage and computation time.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is common and is associated with rising morbidity and mortality in the UK. We found significant association between fatty liver index and incident cardiovascular disease in the fully adjusted model. Fatty liver index significantly associated with a wide range of cardiovascular risk factors at baseline.

Genome-wide-association studies (GWAS) indicated potential CRF and disease genetics overlap. We characterise 135 CRF loci following GWAS in 76029 UK Biobank participants. Fine-mapping identifies a subset of 55 highly likely causal variants, 91% of which are non-coding.

The UK Biobank is a prospective study of more than 500 000 participants. The impact of unmeasured geographical confounding on genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of complex human traits has not been investigated. We observe significant genetic correlation of birth location with a range of lifestyle-related traits, even after adjustment for population structure.

Cardiorespiratory fitness was estimated as watts per kilogram from a submaximal bicycle test in 77 169 men and women from the UK Biobank cohort. Over a median follow-up of 7.7 years, 1731 participants died. Mortality risk was 1.78 times higher in unfit-obese men but not higher in obese-fit men (0.94 [95% CI, 0.60-1.48]). In contrast, there was no increased risk in obesity-unfit women (1.09 [95%) as compared with the reference.

Autoimmune thyroid disease is the most common autoimmune disease and is highly heritable. A low-frequency (1.36%) intronic variant in FLT3 (rs76428106-C) has the largest effect on risk of autoimmune thyroid disease. It is also associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (OR = 1.90, P = 6.46 × 10-4), rheumatoid factor and/or anti-CCP-positive rheumatic arthritis and coeliac disease.

Both fat mass and lean mass are under strong genetic determinants and are correlated. We identified four loci that were significant at the genome-wide significance (GWS, &#945; = 5.0 × 10-8) level at the discovery meta-analysis. The above four pleiotropic loci may play a pleiotropeic role for fat mass development.

Frailty has been linked to increased risk of COVID-19 mortality, but evidence is mainly limited to hospitalized older individuals. This study aimed to assess and compare predictive abilities of different frailty and comorbidity measures for COVID.19 mortality in a community sample and inpatients.

Frailty, sarcopenia, cachexia and malnutrition are clinical conditions that share similar diagnostic criteria. This study aimed to investigate the clustering and mortality risk among these clinical conditions in middle- and older-aged adults.

Analysis included a subsample of 107,452 participants of the UK Biobank study. Participants were recruited from across the United Kingdom between 2006 and 2010. The characteristics significantly associated with higher corneal astigmatism (P) were lighter skin colour and lower alcohol intake.

Keratitis is a complex condition in humans and is the second most common cause of legal blindness worldwide. We performed functional annotations of SNP-based and gene-based genome-wide association studies of keratitis in the UK Biobank (UKB) cohort with 337 199 subjects of European ancestry. A total of 34 SNPs from 14 distinct loci were identified as being associated with the condition.

High alcohol consumption is a risk factor for morbidity and mortality. Few genetic loci have been robustly associated with alcohol intake. We identified six loci attaining genome-wide significant association with alcohol consumption. A conserved role in phenotypic responses to alcohol was observed for all genetic targets available for investigation.

We conducted a large-scale genetic association analysis of educational attainment in a sample of approximately 1.1 million individuals. We identify 1,271 independent genome-wide-significant SNPs. The SNPs implicate genes involved in brain-development processes and neuron-to-neuron communication.

We used gene-based collapsing tests to identify genes associated with glucose, HbA1c and type 2 diabetes (T2D) diagnosis in 379,066 exome-sequenced participants in the UK Biobank. We identified associations for variants in GCK, HNF1A and PDX1, which are known to be involved in Mendelian forms of diabetes. We uncovered novel associations for GIGYF1, a gene not previously implicated by human genetics in diabetes.

The genetic aetiology of broad sense (non-suicidal and suicidal) self-harm has not been characterised on the molecular level. In the present study, we conduct genome-wide association studies (GWAS) using data from the UK Biobank. We also perform genome wide gene-based tests and characterize the SNP heritability and genetic correlations between these traits.

Genome-wide association study of sex in 3.3 million males and females identified 158 autosomal loci spuriously associated with sex. Sex exhibits artifactual autosomal heritability in the presence of sex-differential participation bias. Findings highlight a new challenge that genetic studies may face as sample sizes continue to grow.

The burden of infections on an individual and public health is profound. Many observational studies have shown a link between infections and the pathogenesis of disease. A greater understanding of the role of host genetics is essential. Children from the longitudinal birth cohort, the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children had 14 antibodies measured in plasma at age 7.

Serum concentration of hepatic enzymes are linked to liver dysfunction, metabolic and cardiovascular diseases. We perform genetic analysis on serum levels of alanine transaminase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) using data on 437,438 UK Biobank participants.

Machine Learning (ML) approaches are increasingly being used in biomedical applications. The goals of this study were to assess applicability of TPOT to genomics and to identify combinations of single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with coronary artery disease (CAD)

Treatment-resistant depression (TRD) is a major contributor to the disability caused by major depressive disorder (MDD) Primary care electronic health records provide an easily accessible approach to investigate TRD clinical and genetic characteristics. MDD defined from primary care records in UK Biobank (UKB) and EXCEED studies was compared with other measures of depression.

The inner surfaces of the human heart are covered by a complex network of muscular strands that is thought to be a remnant of embryonic development. The function of these trabeculae in adults and their genetic architecture are unknown. Here we performed a genome-wide association study to investigate image-derived phenotypes. We identified 16 significant loci that contain genes associated with haemodynamic phenotypes and regulation of cytoskeletal arborization.

Males have a higher prevalence of asthma in childhood than females. The 'adolescent switch' observed between sexes during puberty has been hypothesised to be due to fluctuating sex hormones. Robust evidence of the involvement of sex hormones in asthma could lead to development of therapeutic interventions.

Using over 38,000 abdominal MRI scans in the UK Biobank, we used deep learning to quantify volume, fat, and iron in seven organs and tissues. We show that these traits have a substantial heritable component (8-44%) and identify 93 independent genome-wide significant associations.

Subcortical brain structures are integral to motion, consciousness, emotions and learning. We identified common genetic variation related to the volumes of the nucleus accumbens, amygdala, brainstem, caudate nucleus, globus pallidus, putamen and thalamus. 199 genes putatively implicated in neurodevelopment and susceptibility to neurological disorders.

Biological age measures outperform chronological age in predicting various aging outcomes, yet little is known regarding genetic predisposition. We performed genome-wide association scans of two age-adjusted biological age measures. The strongest signals were found in the APOE gene. Genes associated with BioAgeAccel were enriched in lipid related pathways.

 genome-wide association analysis to investigate how much of an individual's fall susceptibility can be attributed to genetics. Analysis revealed a small, but significant SNP-based heritability (2.7%) and identified three novel fall-associated loci.

Study examined whether there is a genetic association between major depression and cardio-metabolic traits and if this association is stratified by age at onset for major depression. Significant genetic correlations were found between depression and body mass index, coronary artery disease, and type 2 diabetes.

Traditional methods have used brain regions from predetermined parcellation schemes as phenotypes for genetic analyses. We found that anatomical SBM networks constructed on individuals from the UK Biobank were heritable and shared functionally meaningful genetic overlap with each other. We additionally identified 27 unique genetic loci that contributed to one or more S BM networks.

Higher scores on the personality trait of neuroticism are associated with worse mental and physical health. This study found that, although individuals who were higher on general neuroticism lived shorter lives, individuals whose neuroticism was characterized by worry and vulnerability lived longer lives.

Human DNA polymorphisms vary across geographic regions. Most commonly observed variation reflects distant ancestry differences. Of 33 traits analysed, 21 showed significant geographic clustering at the genetic level. Alleles associated with educational attainment showed the most clustering.

We found associations between type 2 diabetes (T2D) instruments and forced vital capacity (FVC) as well as FEV1/FVC. Body mass index (BMI) instruments were associated to all lung function traits and C-reactive protein (CRP) instruments to FVC. These genetic associations provide evidence for a causal effect of cardio-metabolic traits on lung function.

Cortical thickness, surface area and volumes vary with age and cognitive function, and in neurological and psychiatric diseases. Here we report heritability, genetic correlations and genome-wide associations of these cortical measures across the whole cortex.

Pain, neuroticism and depression share partially overlapping genetic risk factors. All pain phenotypes, except hip pain and knee pain, had significant and positive genetic correlations with depressive symptoms, major depressive disorders and neuroticism.

Infectious diseases are causally related to a large array of noncommunicable diseases. Identifying genetic determinants of infections and antibody-mediated immune responses may shed light on this relationship and provide therapeutic targets for drug and vaccine development.

Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common childhood cancer. Despite overlap between genetic risk loci for ALL and hematologic traits, the etiological relevance of dysregulated blood-cell homeostasis remains unclear. Study shows that a genetically induced shift toward higher lymphocyte counts, overall and in relation to monocytes, neutrophils, and platelets, confers an increased susceptibility to ALL.

The metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a description of a clustering of cardiometabolic risk factors in the same individual. This study searched for genetic loci associated with all five prespecified components of MetS to find a common pathophysiological link for this risk factor clustering.

Adiposity and ectopic fat play a role in type 2 diabetes and cardiometabolic diseases. We aimed to identify two clusters of adiposity genetic variants: one with "adverse" metabolic effects (UFA) and the other with, paradoxically, "favorable" metabolic effect (FA) UFA was associated with an adverse metabolic profile, higher risk of disease, higher CRP, and higher fat in subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue, liver, and pancreas for UFA and a favorable metabolic profile for FA.

Gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) is associated with multiple risk factors but determining causality is difficult. We used a genetic approach [Mendelian randomization (MR)] to identify potential causal modifiable risk factors for GORD. We tested associations between GORD and four adiposity measures.

A favorable lifestyle was associated with 22% and 31% reductions in invasive breast cancer risk, respectively. For premenopausal women, the greatest risk reduction in association with the HLI was seen among those with a high PRS. There was an additive but not multiplicative interaction between HLI score and PRS for postmenopausal and, to a lesser extent, pre menopausal women.

Depression is a clinically heterogeneous disorder. Previous large-scale genetic studies of depression have explored genetic risk factors of depression case-control status or aggregated sums of depressive symptoms.

The majority of those who experience clinical anxiety and/or depressive symptoms in the population do not receive treatment. If genes influence who seeks and receives treatment, selection bias will confound genomic studies of treatment response.

 Reproductive longevity is essential for fertility and influences healthy ageing in women. But insights into its underlying biological mechanisms and treatments to preserve it are limited. Here we identify 290 genetic determinants of ovarian ageing, assessed using normal variation in age at natural menopause (ANM)

Genetic liability to insomnia was associated with higher odds of six CVDs. The patterns of associations remained with mild attenuation in multivariable MR analyses adjusting for genetically correlated phenotypes and potential mediators, including sleep duration, depression, body mass index, type 2 diabetes and smoking.

We sought to perform a genomic evaluation of the risk of incident cancer in statin users, free of cancer at study entry. Patients who previously participated in two phase IV trials (TNT and IDEAL) with genetic data were used (npooled = 11,196). A GWAS meta-analysis using Cox modeling was conducted in the pooled cohort and sex-stratified.

Birth weight (BW) is an important predictor of newborn survival and health. Twins have a lower BW than singletons as a result of a different pattern of fetal growth and shorter gestational duration. We found a positive correlation of beta values with 150 previously reported genome-wide significant variants for singleton BW.

Biobanks with exomes linked to electronic health records (EHRs) enable the study of genetic pleiotropy between rare variants and seemingly disparate diseases. We analyzed 213,084 exomes, along with a targeted set of retinal, cardiac, and immune phenotypes from two large-scale EHR-linked biobanks. A burden of deleterious variants in ERCC6 was strongly associated with (1) retinal disorders; (2) cardiac and electrocardiogram perturbations; and (3) immunodeficiency.

Large studies such as UK Biobank are increasingly used for GWAS and Mendelian randomization (MR) studies. However, selection into and dropout from studies may bias genetic and phenotypic associations. We examine genetic factors affecting participation in four optional components in up to 451,306 participants.

Preeclampsia is a serious complication of pregnancy, affecting both maternal and fetal health. In genome-wide association meta-analysis of European and Central Asian mothers, we identify sequence variants that associate with preeclampedia in the maternal genome.

Mosaic loss of chromosome Y (LOY) in circulating white blood cells is the most common form of clonal mosaicism1-5. We estimate that 20% of the male population represented in the UK Biobank study (n = 205,011) has detectable LOY. We identify 156 autosomal genetic determinants of LOY, which we replicate in 757,114 men of European and Japanese ancestry.

The aim of this study was to use Mendelian randomization (MR) to determine the causality of the association between smoking and 14 different cardiovascular diseases. The primary genetic instrument comprised 361 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with smoking initiation. Genetic predisposition to smoking initiation was most strongly and consistently associated with higher odds of coronary artery disease, heart failure, abdominal aortic aneurysm, ischaemic stroke, peripheral arterial disease, and arterial hypertension.

Tinnitus has been reported by 15% of the world's population. Many patients report major deficits to cognition and mood. We performed a genome-wide association study of the UK Biobank's 49,960 whole exome sequencing participants to identify any loci strongly associated with tinnitus.

Growing evidence has suggested an association between sleep duration and Alzheimer's disease. It is unclear if sleep duration is a manifestation of the AD disease process. We studied whether genetic liability for AD predicts sleep duration using a genetic risk score.

Depression is a common and clinically heterogeneous mental health disorder. Stratification of depression may align sub-diagnoses more closely with their underling aetiology and provide more tractable targets for research and effective treatment.

Sociability is a trait that is continuously distributed in the general population. decreased sociability represents an early manifestation of several brain disorders. We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of a sociability score based on four social functioning-related self-report questions from 342,461 adults in the UK Biobank. The score was significantly heritable (SNP h2 of 6%).

 Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) enables non-invasive imaging of the retina. We identify 46 loci associated with thickness of the retinal nerve fibre layer or ganglion cell inner plexiform layer. Only one of these loci has been associated with glaucoma. Mendelian randomisation does not support inner retinal thickness being on the same genetic causal pathway as glau coma.

Atezolizumab-induced thyroid dysfunction is associated with longer survival. Genetic variation associated with thyroid autoimmunity interacts with biological pathways driving the systemic immune response to PD-1 blockade.

Inhibition of sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) represents an emerging pharmaceutical approach for the treatment of heart failure. The mechanisms by which SGLT 2 inhibitors reduce the risk of heart Failure are not well understood. The objective of this study was to investigate the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the SLC5A2 gene, encoding S GLT2, and heart failure, and to assess potential mediators of this association.

Most of the genetic basis of chronic liver disease remains undiscovered. We identified a genetic locus in mitochondrial glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase (GPAM) associated with increased levels of ALT, AST, ALP, and total bilirubin. This common genetic variant was also associated with an allele dose-dependent risk of alcohol-associated liver disease.

The number of gluten-free diet followers without celiac disease (CD) is increasing. Little is known about the characteristics of these individuals. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) of following a gluten- free diet was performed.

We used germline genetic variants for nevus count to test whether this phenotypic trait is a risk-marker for cancer. We calculated polygenic risk scores (PRS) using individual-level data in the UK Biobank and QSkin cohort. In both cohorts, those in the highest nevUS PRS quartile had higher risks of melanoma. We found no consistent evidence that nevu count PRS were associated with risks of developing internal cancers.

Genetic components of intelligence affect measured intelligence and educational attainment. These factors affect the prevalence of CAD via a series of unfavorable risk factor profiles. We found significant inverse correlations between gIQ and risk factors of CAD including smoking, BMI, T2D, hypertension, and a positive correlation with HDL cholesterol.

Lower levels of physical activity (PA) have been associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease. One of the suggested mechanisms behind the association between PA and disease development is through systemic inflammation. In this study we investigated the relationship between genetically determined PA and circulating blood cells.

 Epidemiological studies have consistently documented an increased risk of developing primary non-cutaneous malignancies among people with a history of keratinocyte carcinoma (KC) We conducted two separate analyses to test whether genetically predicted KC is related to the risk of cancers at other sites.

Telomere length (TL) shortens over time in most human cell types and is a potential biomarker of aging. The causal association of TL on physical and cognitive traits that decline with age has not been extensively examined in middle-aged adults. Using a Mendelian randomization (MR) approach, we utilized genetically increased TL (GI-TL) to estimate the impact ofTL on aging-related traits.

Folate, vitamin B6 and vitamin B12 have been associated with digestive system cancers. We conducted a two-sample Mendelian randomisation study to assess the causality of these associations. Genetically predicted folate and B6 concentrations were not associated with overall cancer, overall digestive system cancer or oesophageal, gastric, colorectal or pancreatic cancer.

We conducted a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) study to assess the associations of genetically predicted circulating vitamin C levels with cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) Genetically predicted Vitamin C levels were not associated with any CVD after accounting for multiple testing. We found limited evidence with MR techniques for an overall protective role of vitamin C in the primary prevention of CVD.

Elevated blood pressure is a major cause of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. It is not known whether midlife blood pressure affects later life cardiovascular risk independent of later life blood pressure. In both univariable and multivariable mendelian randomization analyses, there was consistent evidence of higher genetically predicted MAP at age &#8804;55 years increasing CAD risk.

Genetic instruments proxying coagulation factor inhibition were identified from genome-wide association studies for activated partial thromboplastin time and prothrombin time in BioBank Japan. Genetically proxied inhibition of fibrinogen alpha, beta, and gamma chain, factor II, and factor XI were associated with reduced risk of venous thromboembolism and large-artery stroke. There were suggestive protective associations of genetically proxied inhibited factors V, VII, and X with ischemic stroke.

Milk consumption was proxied by a genetic variant (rs4988235 or rs182549) upstream of the gene encoding lactase, which catalyzes the breakdown of lactose. The odds ratio (OR) for each additional milk intake increasing allele was 0.95 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.91-0.99). There was no overall association of genetically predicted milk consumption with bladder.

Thyroid status is hypothesized to be causally related with the risk of diabetes mellitus (DM) Previous results were conflicting possibly because of a complex interaction between thyrotropin (TSH), body mass index (BMI) and DM. This work aims to investigate the causal association between thyroid status with DM and glucose homeostasis.

ECG markers of ventricular depolarization and repolarization are associated with an increased risk of arrhythmia and sudden cardiac death. We investigated whether serum calcium is a causal risk factor for changes in ECG measures using Mendelian randomization. A decrease of 0.1 mmol/L serum calcium was associated with longer QT and JT intervals.

Risk-taking behaviour is an important component of several psychiatric disorders, including attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Two genetic loci have been associated with self-reported risk taking and significant genetic overlap with psychiatric disorders was identified within a subsample of UK Biobank. We identified 10 independent loci for risk- taking behaviour, of which eight were novel and two replicated previous findings.

A genome-wide association study was undertaken in 423,992 adult participants of UK Biobank. The study identified 74 independently associated genetic loci, to our knowledge previously unreported. Common genetic variation was estimated to account for 14% of variation in perceived age.

Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible blindness globally. Despite its gravity, the disease is frequently undiagnosed in the community. Raised intraocular pressure (IOP) is the most important risk factor for POAG.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have discovered numerous genetic variants associated with human behavioural traits. However, behavioural traits are subject to misreports and longitudinal changes (MLC) which can cause biases in GWAS and follow-up analyses. We demonstrate that individuals with higher disease burden in the UK Biobank are more likely to misreport or reduce their alcohol consumption levels.

Chronic pain is often present at more than one anatomical location, leading to chronic overlapping pain conditions. We found that different genetic signals underlie chronic single-site and multisite pain with much stronger genetic contributions for the latter. Functional genomics identified axonogenesis in brain tissues as the major contributing pathway to chronic multisitePain.

In modern era Great Britain, genetic effects contribute towards some of the observed socioeconomic inequalities. We identify intelligence as one of the likely causal, partly-heritable phenotypes that might bridge the gap between molecular genetic inheritance and phenotypic consequence.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified several risk loci for gallstone disease. As with most polygenic traits, it is likely that many genetic determinants are undiscovered. We performed a GWAS of 28,627 gallstone cases and 348,373 controls in the UK Biobank, replicated findings in a Scottish cohort, and conducted a GWA meta-analysis with the FinnGen cohort. Seventy-five risk loco were identified, of which 46 were new.

Identifying susceptibility genes could highlight the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms. Implicated genes included NCAM1, CADM2, PHF2/FAM120A, DOCK9, CKAP2/TPTE2P3 and BAG6.

Knockoff-based methods have become increasingly popular due to their enhanced power for locus discovery and their ability to prioritize putative causal variants. Because of the substantial computational cost for generating knockoffs, existing knockoff approaches cannot analyze millions of rare genetic variants in biobank-scale whole-genome sequencing. We propose a scalable KnockoffScreen-AL method for the analysis of common and rare variants across the genome.

Insomnia is the second most prevalent mental disorder, with no sufficient treatment available. Despite substantial heritability, insight into the associated genes and neurobiological pathways remains limited. We identify 202 loci implicating 956 genes through positional, expression quantitative trait loci, and chromatin mapping. Our findings highlight key brain areas and cell types implicated in insomnia.

Shoulder impingement syndrome (SIS) is a common shoulder disorder with unclear genetic mechanism. Genome-wide Association Study (GWAS) was conducted to identify the candidate loci associated with SIS by using the UK Biobank samples. The results provide novel clues for understanding the genetic mechanism of SIS.

Leukocyte telomere length (LTL) is a heritable biomarker of genomic aging. We perform a genome-wide meta-analysis of LTL by pooling densely genotyped and imputed association results across large-scale European-descent studies.

Previous studies have not explained a large part of the genetics behind these diseases. We identified 141 loci, of which 41 are novel, to be associated with asthma, hay fever or eczema. The largest number of loci was associated with the combined phenotype (asthma/hay fever/eczema)

We measured the vertical optic disc diameter (DD) of the UK Biobank (UKBB) cohort. We identified 81 loci (66 novel) for vertical DD. 44 of the 66 novel loci were significant at P.

Excessive daytime sleepiness affects 10-20% of the population and is associated with substantial functional deficits. We identify 42 loci for self-reported sleepiness in GWAS of 452,071 individuals from the UK Biobank. The 42 sleepiness variants primarily cluster into two predominant composite biological subtypes - sleep propensity and sleep fragmentation. Shared genetic links are also seen with obesity, coronary heart disease, psychiatric diseases, cognitive traits and reproductive ageing.

Serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminosferase(AST) are biomarkers for liver health. Largest genome-wide association analysis to date of serum ALT and AST levels in over 388k people of European ancestry from UK biobank and DiscovEHR.

Venous thromboembolism is a significant cause of mortality. Yet its genetic determinants are incompletely defined. We performed a discovery genome-wide association study in the Million Veteran Program and UK Biobank, with testing of approximately 13 million DNA sequence variants. We identified 22 previously unknown loci.

POP is a downward descent of one or more of the pelvic organs, resulting in a protrusion of the vaginal wall and/or uterus. We performed a genome-wide association study of POP using data from Iceland and the UK Biobank. We found eight sequence variants at seven loci associating with POP.

Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of blindness. Little is known about the genetic architecture of early AMD. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) meta-analysis.

Corneal curvature is a key clinical endophenotype for myopia - a major cause of visual impairment and blindness in the world. Here we present a trans-ethnic meta-analysis of corneal curvatures GWAS in 44,042 individuals of Caucasian and Asian. We identified 47 loci (of which 26 are novel), with population-specific signals as well as shared signals across ethnicities.

Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) is a common cardiac valve disease, which affects 1 in 40 in the general population. Previous genome-wide association study has identified 6 risk loci for MVP, but these loci explained only partially the genetic risk for MVP. We aim to identify additional risk locus for MVP by adding data set from the UK Biobank.

Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a leading cause of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. We identified 19 PAD loci, 18 of which have not been previously reported. Eleven of the 19 loci were associated with disease in three vascular beds.

Leisure sedentary behaviours are associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Whether this relationship is causal is unknown. Genome wide association analyses of leisure television watching, leisure computer use and driving behaviour in the UK Biobank identify 145, 36 and 4 genetic loci (P)

Identifying genetic risk factors for lumbar spine disorders may lead to knowledge regarding underlying mechanisms and the development of new treatments. Genome-wide association study used logistic regression with additive genetic effects adjusting for age, sex, site-specific factors, and ancestry.

Only a minority of heavy drinkers progress to alcohol-associated cirrhosis (ALC) The aim of this study was to identify common genetic variants that underlie risk for ALC. We analyzed data from 1,128 subjects of European ancestry with ALC and 614 heavy-drinking subjects without known liver disease.

We aimed to increase our understanding of the genetic determinants of vitamin D levels by undertaking a large-scale genome-wide association study. We used imputed genotypes from 401,460 white British UK Biobank participants with available 25OHD levels. 138 conditionally independent SNPs were detected (p value  -9 ) among which 53 had MAF.

Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is common noncancerous prostate enlargement. Majority of elderly men will be affected by BPH as age increases. We conducted a genome-wide association study of BPH.

The genetic basis of spastic cerebral palsy is largely unknown. We used whole-genome genetic information linked to a deidentified electronic health record (BioVU) with replication in the UK Biobank and FinnGen. We identify 1 SNP (rs78686911) reaching genome-wide significance with spastic CP. Our study indicates that genetic variation contributes to CP risk.

Chronic widespread musculoskeletal pain (CWP) is a symptom of fibromyalgia and a complex trait with poorly understood pathogenesis. CWP is heritable (48%-54%) but its genetic architecture is unknown. We conducted a genome-wide association study to get insight into the genetic background of CWP.

The skin's tendency to sunburn rather than tan is a major risk factor for skin cancer. Here we report a large genome-wide association study of ease of skin tanning in 176,678 subjects of European ancestry.

Circulating cardiac troponin proteins are associated with structural heart disease and predict incident cardiovascular disease in the general population. We identified 12 genetic loci (8 novel) associated with cTnI concentrations. Associated protein-altering variants highlighted putative functional genes: CAND2, HABP2, ANO5, APOH, FHOD3 and KLKB1.

Cognitive impairment is a frequent and serious problem in patients with various forms of severe mental illnesses (SMI), including schizophrenia (SZ) and bipolar disorder (BP) Recent research suggests genetic links to several cognitive phenotypes in both SMI and in the general population. Our goal in this study was to identify potential genomic signatures of cognitive functioning in veterans with severe mental illness.

Estradiol is the primary female sex hormone and plays an important role for skeletal health in both sexes. Few genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have been performed to characterize the genetic contribution to variation in estrogen levels.

Rupture of an intracranial aneurysm leads to subarachnoid hemorrhage, a severe type of stroke. We performed a cross-ancestry, genome-wide association study in 10,754 cases and 306,882 controls of European and East Asian ancestry. We discovered 17 risk loci, 11 of which are new.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified several risk loci for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) Previous studies have largely relied on small sample sizes and have assessed quantitative traits. We performed a case-control GWAS in the UK Biobank using recorded diagnosis of NAFLD.

Occupational attainment is a known proxy marker of cognitive reserve for Alzheimer's disease. We performed a large-scale genome-wide association study of occupational attainment with 248 847 European individuals. We identified 30 significant loci (P)

Self-reported walking pace has been associated with a range of cardiorespiratory and cancer outcomes, and is a strong predictor of mortality. We identify 70 independent associated loci (P) in 450,967 European ancestry UK Biobank participants.

Serum liver enzyme concentrations are the most frequently-used laboratory markers of liver disease, a major cause of mortality. We conduct a meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies of liver enzymes from UK BioBank and BioBank Japan. Associated variants implicate genes that demonstrate diverse liver cell type expression and promote a range of metabolic and liver diseases. These findings provide insight into the pathophysiology of liver and other metabolic diseases.

The metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a description of a clustering of cardiometabolic risk factors in the same individual. Previous genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified 29 independent genetic loci linked to MetS as a binary trait. This study used data from UK biobank to search for additional loci.

Tinnitus is often associated with pre-existing hearing loss or noise-induced damage to the auditory system. Evidence suggests that tinnitus has a heritable component. Previous genetic studies have not established specific risk factors.

Muscle bulk in adult healthy humans is highly variable even after height, age, and sex are accounted for. Low muscle mass, due to fewer and/or smaller constituent muscle fibers, would exacerbate the impact of muscle loss occurring in aging or disease. Genetic variability substantially influences muscle mass differences, but causative genes remain largely unknown.

Stress is associated with poorer physical and mental health. We performed genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of depressive symptoms and stressful life events. No SNP was individually significant in either GWAS, but gene-based tests identified six genes associated with depressive symptoms in UK Biobank.

Risk of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is determined by both cigarette smoking and genetic susceptibility. Little is known about gene-by-smoking interactions. We performed a genome-wide association analysis of 179,689 controls and 21,077 COPD cases.

Diet is a significant modifiable risk factor for type 2 diabetes (T2D) Its effect on disease risk is under partial genetic control. Identification of specific gene-diet interactions (GDIs) influencing risk biomarkers is a critical step towards precision nutrition for T2D prevention.

Gene-environment interactions (GxE) are often suggested to play an important role in the aetiology of psychiatric phenotypes. We investigated interactions on the level of SNPs, genes, and gene-sets. We computed interaction-based polygenic risk scores (PRS) to predict neuroticism in an independent sample subset.

Neuroimaging-genetics cohorts gather two types of data: brain imaging and genetic data. They allow the discovery of associations between genetic variants and brain imaging features. This study presents a genome-wide haplotype analysis for 123 brain sulcus opening value across the whole brain.

Underlying genetic and phenotypic mechanisms are not fully understood, partially due to lack of coordinated genotypic-phenotypic data. Study identified 549 significant single-variant associations ( p   -9 ), many in chromosome 11's triglyceride hotspot. A well-known protective loss-of-function variant in APOC3 (R19X) was associated with a 51% decrease in triglyceride levels.

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), is a heritable common cause of blindness world-wide. We conduct a large multi-ethnic meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies on a total of 34,179 cases and 349,321 controls. We identify 44 previously unreported risk loci and confirm 83 loci that were previously known. The majority of loci have broadly consistent effects across European, Asian and African ancestries.

Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of irreversible blindness among the elderly. We identified 12 novel AMD loci near or within C4BPA - CD55, ZNF385B, ZBTB38, NFKB1, LINC00461, ADAM19, CPN1, ACSL5, CSK, RLBP1, CLUL1, and LBP. Most of the novel genes are expressed in retinal tissue and could be involved in the pathogenesis of AMD.

 Understanding the impact of rare variants is essential to understanding human health. We analyze rare (MAF) variants to find out how they affect the human body.

The resting QT interval is a heritable risk marker of cardiovascular mortality. The mechanisms remain incompletely understood. We identified 40 loci, 13 of which were novel, including 2 potential sex-specific loci. Candidate genes at novel loci were involved in myocardial structure and arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy.

Bayesian approach (BayesW) provides probabilistic inference of the genetic architecture of age-at-onset phenotypes. We show in extensive simulation work the benefits BayesW provides in terms of number of discoveries and genomic prediction.

Across species, offspring of related individuals often exhibit significant reduction in fitness-related traits, known as inbreeding depression (ID) The genetic and molecular basis for ID remains elusive. Here, we develop a method to quantify enrichment of ID within specific genomic annotations and apply it to human data.

Circulating testosterone levels are a heritable trait with anabolic properties in various tissues, including skeletal muscle. Hundreds of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with testosterone levels have been identified. The aim of the present study was to test the association of 822 testosterone-increasing SNPs with muscle-related traits.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) survival has environmental and inherited components. The expression of specific genes can be inferred based on individual genotypes. In this study, we used the PrediXcan method to predict gene expression in normal colon tissue.

 differences in local contexts influencing how much a given neighbourhood characteristic matters for the health of local residents. Linking UK Biobank data from 302,952 urban-dwelling adults in England, collected between 2006 and 2010.

The G84E mutation was found in 1,545 (0.34%) of 460,224 participants of European ancestry. While mutation status did not associate with cancer risk in females, it was significantly associated with increased risk in males.

With the development of genome-wide association studies, how to gain information from a large scale of data has become an issue of common concern. Traditional methods are not fully developed to solve problems such as identifying loci-to-loci interactions. We developed a two-stage global search algorithm, Greedy Equivalence Search with Local Modification.

Mosaic loss of chromosome Y (LOY) in leukocytes is the most common form of clonal mosaicism. We find that loss of function of two genes - CHEK2 and GIGYF1 - reach exome-wide significance.

Glucosamine is a widely used supplement typically taken for osteoarthritis and joint pain. Emerging evidence suggests potential links of glucosamine with glucose metabolism, inflammation, and cardiometabolic risk. We analyzed 404,508 participants from the UK Biobank who were free of diabetes, cancer, or cardiovascular disease at baseline.

Glucosamine is widely used in many countries and may have anti-inflammatory properties. Chronic inflammation exerts pleiotropic effects in the aetiology and progression of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) We aimed to evaluate the association of regular glucosamine use with incident COPD risk in the UK Biobank cohort.

Gluten has been linked to adverse effects on metabolic and vascular health. Gluten intake was estimated in 159,265 participants of the UK Biobank which is a large multicenter, prospective cohort study.

Gluten intake was estimated in 39,927 participants of the UK Biobank who completed a dietary questionnaire. Multiple linear regression analyses were performed between gluten intake and markers of metabolic health with Holm adjustment for multiple comparisons.

Gout and/or rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are risk factors for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) diagnosis and death. We used data from the UK Biobank. RA, but not gout, was associated with COVID- 19 diagnosis in analysis A.

Causal inference via Mendelian randomization requires making strong assumptions about horizontal pleiotropy. Here, we present causal Graphical Analysis Using Genetics (cGAUGE), a pipeline that overcomes these limitations using instrument filters with provable properties. cGAUGE also uses ExSep (Exposure-based Separation), a novel test for the existence of causal pathways.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) were measured in a large sample of adults from the UK Biobank. Polygenic risk was significantly associated with reduced neurite density index (NDI) at global brain scale. Risk-related reduction in NDI is plausibly indicative of reduced density of myelinated axons and dendritic arborization in cortico-subcortical networks.

A total of 406,834 participants from the UK Biobank, with baseline measurements between March 13, 2006, and October 1, 2010, without CVD at baseline were included in this study. Associations of grip strength and walking pace with CVD outcomes were investigated using Cox models.

Genome-wide association study of A Body Shape Index (ABSI), Hip Index (HI) and the new Waist-to-Hip Index. Data from the UK Biobank Resource for 219,872 women and 186,825 men with white British ancestry. One to two thirds of the loci identified for allometric body-shape indices were novel.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have been used to study the genetic basis of a wide variety of complex diseases and other traits. UK Biobank GWAS results for three molecular traits-urate, IGF-1, and testosterone-with better-understood biology than most other complex traits.

Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) is critical for normal development and metabolism. We identify 74 genome-wide significant loci for TSH, of which 28 are previously unreported. Phenome-wide association analysis in the UK Biobank demonstrates the pleiotropic effects of TSH-associated variants.

Genotype-by-environment interaction (GxE) is fundamental in the biology of complex traits and diseases. Existing methods are computationally demanding and infeasible to handle biobank-scale data. We introduce GxEsum, a method for estimating the phenotypic variance explained by genome-wide GXE based on GWAS statistics.

H2AX can be of prognostic value in breast cancer, since in advanced stage patients with high levels, there was an association with worse overall survival. However, the clinical relevance of H2AX in ovarian cancer (OC) remains to be elucidated. Polymorphisms in the area around the gene were associated with both OC prevalence and worse OS.

Mechanisms linking habitual consumption of coffee and tea to the development of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases remain unclear. We leveraged dietary, genetic, and biomarker data collected from the UK Biobank. Each additional cup of coffee was significantly associated with higher total cholesterol, HDL-ch cholesterol, and LDL-cholesterol concentrations.

Study included 492,713 participants from the UK Biobank who completed a questionnaire on habitual fish oil supplement use between 2006 and 2010. Compared with nonuse, habitual use of fish oil supplements was associated with a lower risk of total fractures (HR = 0.93; 95% CI: 0.89, 0.97)

Vitamin D insufficiency is related to a higher risk of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) infection. Previous studies have related vitamin D supplementation to a lower risk of acute respiratory tract infection. We aimed to investigate the prospective association between habitual use of vitamin D supplements and risk of CO VID-19 infection.

Red blood cell, platelet, and white blood cell indices may be markers of a range of exposures that might be related to prostate cancer risk. Blood count data from 209,686 male UK Biobank participants who were free from cancer at study baseline were analyzed.

10% of the human population is left-handed, and this rate is increased in some brain-related disorders. The neuroanatomical correlates of hand preference have remained equivocal. We resampled structural brain image data from 28,802 right- handers and 3,062 left-handers (UK Biobank population dataset) to a symmetrical surface template.

Ninety per cent of the human population has been right-handed since the Paleolithic. Yet the brain signature and genetic basis of handedness remain poorly characterized. Here, we correlated brain imaging phenotypes from &#8764;9000 UK Biobank participants with handedness. We found four significant loci (rs199512, rs45608532, rs13017199, and rs3094128) for human handedness in the general population.

Calcium is essential for the normal functioning of the cardiovascular system, muscles, and nerves. We conducted a phenome-wide Mendelian randomization analysis to survey health effects associated with high normal serum calcium. We found causal evidence for conditions related to renal function, bone and joint health, and cardiovascular risk.

IT worker health is under-studied and large-scale studies are lacking. IT workers reported similar overall health, but lower lifestyle risk factors for smoking and obesity. Sedentary work was a substantially higher occupational exposure risk for IT workers.

A total of 480,940 middle-aged adults were analysed in the UK Biobank. A total of 93,746 (19.5%) participants had multimorbidity. Engaging in a healthier lifestyle was associated with up to 6.3 years longer life for men and 7.6 years for women. However, not all lifestyle risk factors equally correlated with life expectancy.

Data from a subsample of the U.K. Biobank were analyzed to determine to what extent differences in levels of hearing difficulties and tinnitus in high-risk industries could be attributable to demographic, health, and lifestyle factors. Older age, low socioeconomic status, and non-White ethnic background partially accounted for higher levels of Hearing difficulties in the construction industry. The levels of tinn Titus were greatest for music and construction industries compared with finance.

Obesity is a risk factor for SARS-COV2 infection and is often associated with hepatic steatosis. The aim of this study was to determine if pre-existing hepatic Steatosis affects the risk of infection and severity for COVID-19.

CeD, Crohn&#180;s disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) cohorts assessed. Baseline liver function tests and the frequency of hepatobiliary diseases were analyzed. Elevated ALP and cholelithiasis were significantly more common in all intestinal disorders.

We introduce an approach to identify disease-relevant tissues and cell types. We analyzed gene expression data together with genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics. We found significant tissue-specific enrichments (false discovery rate (FDR)

Four major forms of Alzheimer's disease (AD) genetic risk are associated with 273 traits in 500,000 individuals in the UK Biobank. The traits cover blood biochemistry and cell traits, metabolic and general health, psychosocial health and cognitive function.

High coffee consumption was associated with smaller total brain volumes and increased odds of dementia. The association between coffee consumption and dementia was non-linear. Evidence for higher odds for non-coffee and decaffeinated coffee drinkers and those drinking >6 cups/day.

Elevated serum uric acid (SUA) levels have been previously reported to play a role in multiple types of cancers. However, epidemiological studies evaluating SUA levels and colorectal cancer risk remain sparse. This cohort study included 444 462 participants between the ages of 40 and 69 years from the UK Biobank.

High-definition likelihood (HDL) method to improve precision in genetic correlation estimation. Compared to LDSC, HDL reduces the variance of genetic correlation estimates by about 60%, equivalent to a 2.5-fold increase in sample size.

Higher adiposity is an established risk factor for psychiatric diseases including depression and anxiety. The associations between adiposity and depression may be explained by the metabolic consequences and/or by the psychosocial impact of higher adiposity. We performed one- and two- sample Mendelian randomization (MR) in up to 145 668 European participants from the UK Biobank.

Measurement of hippocampal volume has proven useful to diagnose and track progression in several brain disorders, most notably in Alzheimer's disease. However, clinicians and researchers require access to age-related normative percentiles to reliably categorise a patient's hippocampus as being pathologically small. In this report, we provide normative values for hippocampal and total grey matter volume as a function of age for reference in clinical and research settings.

Fluvoxamine strongly binds to the sigma-1 receptor (S1R) that regulates inflammation by inhibiting the production of cytokines, believed to be responsible for severe COVID-19. We evaluated the S1R locus on chr 9p13.3 in subjects tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The effect of rs17775810 genotype on survival was significant.

Pneumonia is a lung disease that can cause respiratory failure and hypoxia. Few genome-wide association studies (GWASs) of host susceptibility and severity of pneumonia have been conducted. Two regions of large effect were identified: the CFTR locus in EA and HBB in AA. Mutations in these genes cause cystic fibrosis (CF) and sickle cell disease (SCD)

Childhood maltreatment has been consistently associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD) We explored the relative contribution of anxiety/depression, smoking, body mass index (BMI) and inflammation (C-reactive protein, CRP) to the association between childhood maltreatment and CVD in the UK.

A larger waist circumference (WC), but not BMI, was associated with an increase in fracture risk in men. In women, neither BMI nor WC affected the risk. Trunk fat mass, visceral adipose tissue (VAT) mass, and limb fat mass were negatively associated with vertebral body BMD and geometry in men and women.

Previous studies have yielded conflicting results on the association between human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) This study examined associations between HCMV and incident CVD, ischaemic heart disease (IHD) and stroke.

Human leukocyte antigens (HLA) have been associated with renal function, but previous studies report contradictory findings. There has been a lack of research into how HLA affects renal function in Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) people in the UK. BAME people are disproportionately affected by renal dysfunction.

Hyperopia (farsightedness) has been associated with a deficit in children's educational attainment in some studies. We aimed to investigate the causality of the relationship between refractive error and educational attainment. Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis in 74,463 UK Biobank participants was used.

Iiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a fatal disorder characterised by progressive, destructive lung scarring. Despite substantial progress, the genetic determinants of this disease remain incompletely defined. We found a novel association between a rare missense variant in SPDL1 and IPF (NM_017785.5:g.169588475 G > A p.Arg20Gln)

We identified a novel association between a variant in the CREB5 gene and RCD surgery. Validation of this finding in studies with imaging data to confirm diagnoses will be an important next step. Identification of genetic RCD susceptibility markers can guide understanding of biological processes.

Familial aggregation is known for both hernia development and recurrence. To date, only one genome-wide association study (GWAS) limited to inguinal hernia has been reported. We aim to investigate the polygenic architecture of abdominal wall hernia subtypes and identify specific single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)

Endometrial cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer of the female reproductive tract in developed countries. Through genome-wide association studies (GWAS), we have previously identified eight risk loci. Here, we present an expanded meta-analysis of 12,906 endometrial. cancer cases and 108,979 controls (including new genotype data for 5624 cases) and identify nine novel genome- wide significant loci, including a locus on 12q24.12.

Handgrip strength is a widely used measure of muscle strength and a predictor of a range of morbidities including cardiovascular diseases and all-cause mortality. Previous genome-wide association studies have focused on common variants primarily in persons of European descent. We aimed to identify rare and ancestry-specific genetic variants associated with handgrip Strength.

Study: 1,363 individuals with AAA compared to 27,260 age, ancestry, and sex-matched controls. Analysis was repeated for 435 individuals with TAA compared to 8,700 controls. Novel loci near LINC01021, ATOH8 and JAK2 genes that achieved genome-wide significance for AAA. For TAA, three novel loci in CTNNA3, FRMD6 and MBP achieved genomewide significance.

Oral inflammatory diseases (OIDs) are a group of dental diseases with multiple clinical manifestations that impact the majority of the world's population. Many studies have investigated the associations between individual OID traits and genomic variants. Here, we conducted multitrait joint analyses based on the summary statistics of genome-wide association studies (GWASs) of five dental traits from the UK Biobank.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia, with an estimated prevalence of around 1.6% in the adult population. The analysis of the electrocardiogram (ECG) data acquired in the UK Biobank represents an opportunity to screen for AF in a large sub-population. The combined classical machine-learning and deep learning method achieved an F1 score of 84.8%.

Bone mineral density (BMD) is a key indicator for diagnosis and treatment for osteoporosis. The reduction of BMD could increase the risk of osteop orotic fracture. SNP rs62048221 was located at the enhancer region (HEDD enhancer ID 2331049) of gene PIEZO1.

Bone mineral density (BMD) and lean body mass (LBM) not only have a considerable heritability each, but also are genetically correlated. Common genetic determinants shared by both traits are largely unknown. We identified 2 loci that nearly attained the genome-wide significance.

Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed malignancy in women. More cancer prevention research is urgently needed. The aim of this study was to predict potential therapeutic agents for breast cancer and determine their molecular mechanisms using integrated bioinformatics.

Study aimed to screen the entire genome for genetic markers associated with risk for Achilles tendon injury. Genome-wide association analysis was performed using data from the Kaiser Permanente Research Board and the UK Biobank.

Disease-agnostic approach to cluster genetic risk profiles for 3,025 genome-wide independent loci across 19,155 disease classification codes from 320,644 participants in the UK Biobank. We identify 339 distinct disease association profiles and use multiple approaches to link clusters to the underlying biological pathways.

Phenotype Latent variable Extraction of disease misdiagnosis (PheLEx) is a GWAS analysis framework that learns and corrects misclassified phenotypes using structured genotype associations within a dataset. We demonstrate the potential of PheLEX for extracting new potential loci from existing GWAS data by analyzing bipolar disorder and epilepsy phenotypes available from UK Biobank.

Mendelian randomization phenome-wide association study (MR-pheWAS) of age at menarche with 17,893 health-related traits in UK Biobank (n = 181,318) using PHESANT. After exclusion of variants associated with BMI, the genetic risk score for age atMenarche was related to 37 traits. Follow-up analyses indicated imprecise evidence of an effect of younger age at Menarche on greater bone-mineral density, lower lung function, and higher neuroticism score.

Machine learning approach ranked the tissue-specific transcription regulatory effects for T1D SNPs. An eQTL (rs6679677) associated with changes to AP4B1-AS1 transcript levels in lung tissue makes the largest gene regulatory contribution to the risk of T1d development.

Identifying AD neuroimaging markers may help study early mechanisms of neurodegeneration. We aimed to identify brain regions of the highest vulnerability to AD using a data-driven search in the AD Neuroimaging Initiative. Whole-genome analysis revealed a common variant in SHARPIN that was associated with this imaging feature.

Lung cancer is genetically correlated with reduced forced expiratory volume in one second. Mendelian randomization analyses demonstrate that reduced FEV1 increases squamous cell carcinoma risk. Findings support a causal role of pulmonary impairment in lung cancer etiology.

Odds of persisting amblyopia were 5.91 (5.24-6.66) and 2.49 (2.21-2.81) times greater in cohort 1 and cohort 2, respectively, than cohort 3. The odds were also higher for more socioeconomically deprived groups and for white ethnicity. Reduced participation in sport, adverse general and mental health, and well-being were all independently associated with persisting Amblyopia. The observed adverse outcomes were largely those not directly mediated by vision.

Analyzing the NHLBI Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine (TOPMed) sequence data in 10,338 individuals from five studies and four ancestries. The most associated G6PD variant (rs1050828-T, p.Val98Met, MAF = 12% in African-Americans, 2% in Hispanics) lowered HbA1c (-0.88% in hemizygous males, -0.34% in heterozygous females)

We conducted a prospective cohort study in 60,235 UK Biobank participants (mean age: 56; 56% female) Exposure was baseline daily movement behaviours and self-reported total sleep. Outcomes were depression and anxiety symptoms at follow-up. Replacing 60 min of sedentary behaviour with light activity, moderate-to-vigorous activity, and sleep was associated with lower depression symptom scores.

Of 502,543 participants, 3849 (1.4%) of women and 1643 (0.7%) of men had a diagnosis of RA. Corticosteroid and DMARD therapy, but not biologic therapy, were associated with a lower eBMD with RA.

Sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) is a circulating glycoprotein and a regulator of sex hormone levels. The molecular nature of SHBG makes it a feasible target for preventative or therapeutic interventions. A systematic study of its effects across the human phenome may uncover novel associations.

Exposure to different workplace hazards were analyzed among 119,413 participants from the UK Biobank cohort. Shift workers had a higher prevalence ratio (PR) than other workers of being exposed to almost all identified hazards both before or after 1980.

LDAK-Bolt-Predict outperforms existing tools Lasso, BLUP, Bolt-LMM and BayesR for all 14 phenotypes. When we improve the heritability model, the proportion of phenotypic variance explained increases by on average 14%. This is equivalent to increasing the sample size by a quarter.

To study genetic factors associated with brain aging, we first need to quantify brain aging. Statistical models have been created for estimating the apparent age of the brain. A more accurate PBA enables the discovery of novel genetic associations.

Convolutional neural network (CNN) based segmentation methods provide an efficient and automated way for clinicians to assess the structure and function of the heart in cardiac MR images. While CNNs can generally perform the segmentation tasks with high accuracy when training and test images come from the same domain, their performance often degrades dramatically on images from different scanners or clinical sites. We propose a simple yet effective way for improving the network generalization ability by carefully designing data normalization and augmentation strategies.

Study explores the predictive utility of gene expression risk scores (GeRS) calculated using imputed gene expression and transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) results. GeRS significantly predicted a range of outcomes, with elastic net models combining GeRS across SNP-weight sets improving prediction. The proportion of SNP-based heritability attributable to cis-regulated expression was modest for most outcomes.

Mosaic chromosomal alterations (mCAs) are large chromosomal gains, losses and copy-neutral losses of heterozygosity in peripheral leukocytes. Many individuals with detectable mCAs have no notable adverse outcomes. MCA-associated gene dosage alterations as well as clonal expansion of mutated leukocyte clones could increase susceptibility to disease.

The majority of polygenic risk scores (PRSs) have been developed and optimized in individuals of European ancestry. We find that including into the PRS variants discovered in African ancestry individuals has the potential to achieve unbiased estimates of genetic risk across global populations and admixed individuals.

The US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recently proposed to widen the current lung cancer screening guideline to include less-heavy smokers. We constructed a polygenic risk score (PRS) using lung cancer risk variants. During a median follow-up of 5.8 years, 1449 incident cases of lung cancer were identified.

Polygenic risk prediction is a widely investigated topic because of its promising clinical applications. Genetic variants in functional regions of the genome are enriched for complex trait heritability. We introduce a method for polygenic prediction, LDpred-funct, that leverages trait-specific functional priors to increase prediction accuracy.

Extreme presentations of common disease in children are often presumed to be of Mendelian etiology, but their polygenic basis has not been fully explored. We tested whether children with significant fracture history and no osteogenesis imperfecta are at increased polygenic risk for fracture. We generated a polygenic score of heel ultrasound-derived speed of sound, termed "gSOS"

Study looked at the association between osteoarthritis (OA), rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and frailty. Participants of the UK Biobank age 40-69 years at baseline were included. Frailty was assessed using a frailty index (FI) and a modified frailty phenotype (robust, pre-frail)

13,502 participants were tested for Covid-19 (mean age 70 +/- 8 years, 48.9% male) 1582 tested positive, of which 305 died. For every unit increase in BMI, WHR and body fat, the odds of death amongst Covid19-positive participants increased by 1.04 (95% CI 1.01-1.07) 35 kg/m2 had significantly higher odds of Covids-19-related death (OR 1.70, 95%CI 1.06-2.74)

Several forms of physical fitness could be modifiable risk factors for common mental disorders in the population. We examined associations between individual and combined markers of cardiorespiratory fitness and grip strength with the incidence of mental disorders.

Brain age is a widely used index for quantifying individuals' brain health. Higher-than-expected brain age is thought partially to reflect above-average rate of brain aging. We tested this assumption by assessing the relationship between cross-sectional and longitudinal estimates of  brain age.

We identified patients with one of five common complex diseases among 44,550 individuals who underwent exome sequencing in the UK Biobank. We derived PRS for these five diseases, and identified pathogenic rare variant heterozygotes. Rare pathogenic variants were more prevalent among affected patients with a low PRS.

Identifying disease subtypes and corresponding biomarkers can substantially improve clinical diagnosis and treatment selection. Discovering these subtypes in noisy, high dimensional biomedical data is often impossible for humans and challenging for machines. Instead of analyzing the original data, we train a diagnostic classifier and extract instance-wise explanations for the classifier's decisions.

The contribution of gene-by-environment (GxE) interactions for many human traits and diseases is poorly characterized. We propose a Bayesian whole-genome regression model for joint modeling of main genetic effects and GxE interactions. The method is called LEMMA (Linear Environment Mixed Model Analysis)

Modeling how individuals evolve over time is a fundamental problem in the natural and social sciences. Existing datasets are often cross-sectional with each individual observed only once. Motivated by the study of human aging, we present an interpretable latent-variable model.

Study of 461 563 participants from the UK Biobank. During a median follow-up of 8.1 years, 2 233 dementia cases were recorded. Individuals with diabetes had higher risk of all-cause dementia. Risk increased with increasing duration of diabetes.

Although snoring is common in the general population, its aetiology has been largely understudied. We identify 42 genome-wide significant loci, with an SNP-based heritability estimate of 10%. Gene-based associations identify 173 genes, including DLEU7, MSRB3 and POC5.

Retinal detachment (RD) is a serious and common condition, but genetic studies to date have been hampered by the small size of the assembled cohorts. In the UK Biobank data set, where RD was ascertained by self-report or hospital records, genetic correlations between RD and high myopia or cataract operation were 0.46 and 0.44. Replication in the 23andMe data set firmly establishes six RD risk loci.

Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is involved in several processes relevant to carcinogenesis. We used 416 single-nucleotide polymorphisms associated with serum IGF-1 levels to assess the potential causal associations between this hormone and site-specific cancers through Mendelian randomization. The odds ratio (OR) per standard deviation increase of IGF- 1 levels was 1.11 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.01-1.22; P = .03) in UK Biobank.

Processed meat and high sodium intake are common in Western diet. objective was to examine their independent effects on the risk of colorectal cancer (CRC) We performed both observational analysis with UK Biobank and genetic analysis with Mendelian randomization.

Gene-based association tests aggregate genotypes across multiple variants for each gene. They provide an interpretable gene-level analysis framework for genome-wide association studies (GWAS) Most GWAS associations to date are non-coding. Identifying causal genes from regulatory associations remains challenging.

Large scale neuroimaging datasets present the possibility of providing normative distributions for a wide variety of neuroim imaging markers. A major challenge is our current poor ability to integrate measures across different large-scale datasets. Here we explore the harmonisation of white matter hyperintensity (WMH) measures across two major studies of healthy elderly populations.

Integration of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) studies is needed to improve our understanding of the biological mechanisms underlying GWAS hits. Gene-level association methods such as PrediXcan can prioritize candidate targets. However, limited eQTL sample sizes and absence of relevant developmental and disease context restrict our ability to detect associations.

We evaluated whether the association between cigarette smoking and dementia risk is modified by genetic predisposition including apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype and polygenic risk. We included 193,198 UK Biobank participants aged 60-73 years without dementia at baseline. Of non-APOE-&#949;4 carriers, 0.89% (95% CI 0.73-1.08%) current smokers developed dementia compared with 0.49% of never smokers.

Alcohol consumption and genetic risk for Alzheimer disease (AD) are among many factors known to be associated with brain structure in cognitively healthy adults. We hypothesized that there is an interaction effect of alcohol consumption and a 33-SNP AD polygenic risk score (PRS) on the cortical thickness of brain regions. We found a significant, positive association with AD Cortical Thickness Signature among high-risk subjects.

Both lifestyle and genetic factors confer risk for cardiovascular diseases, type 2 diabetes, and dyslipidemia. The interactions between these 2 groups of risk factors were not comprehensively understood due to previous poor estimation of genetic risk. We developed enhanced polygenic risk scores (PRS) and systematically investigated multiplicative and additive interactions between PRS and lifestyle.

Mendelian randomization has been previously used to estimate the effects of binary and ordinal categorical exposures-e.g. Type 2 diabetes or educational attainment defined by qualification-on outcomes. We show that a higher educational-attainment PGS is strongly associated with lower smoking initiation and higher odds of glasses use at age 15&#x2009;years. These associations were replicated in sibling models.

We combined genome-wide and metabolome-wide datasets generated from large-scale cohorts. Five trauma-response traits ascertained in the UK Biobank (52,816)

Statins, PCSK9 inhibitors and ezetimibe have pleiotropic effects on ischemic heart disease (IHD) via testosterone in men or women. Using previously published genetic instruments we conducted a sex-specific univariable and multivariable Mendelian randomization study in the UK Biobank.

 Epidemiological studies report increased comorbidity between depression and autoimmune diseases. We investigated the evidence for pleiotropy between these traits in the UK Biobank. The prevalence of depression was significantly higher in autoimmune cases than in controls.

We tested the association between schizophrenia polygenic risk scores (PRSs) and behavioural traits in the UK Biobank. Higher schizophrenia PRSs were associated with a range of traits, including lower verbal-numerical reasoning and higher nervous feelings. We follow-up the risk-taking association, hypothesising that the association may be due to a genetic propensity for risk- taking.

Non-invasive retinal fundus imaging enables evaluation of the microvascular network and may offer insight to systemic risk associated with CKD. Microvascular parameters were quantified from macula-centred fundus images.

Study included 323,373 participants, free of terminated healthspan at baseline. Four sleep behaviors (insomnia/sleeplessness, napping, daytime sleepiness) were self-reported and measured on Likert scales.

We conducted a two-sample Mendelian randomization study to explore the associations of iron status with overall cancer and 22 site-specific cancers. Genetically predicted iron status was positively associated with liver cancer and inversely associated with brain cancer.

Study examines whether neuroticism is differentially associated with risk of incident Alzheimer's disease (AD), vascular dementia (VD), and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) Participants from the UK Biobank (N = 401,422) completed a self-report neuroticism scale in 2006-2010.

UK Biobank baseline data ( n  = 280,183, 48.3% female) were used to examine the associations between alcohol consumption with body mass index (BMI) and body fat percentage. Compared to those who never drink wines, drinkers of these alcoholic beverages had lower BMI. Beer and spirits drinkers had higher BMI compared to never drinkers of beer and spirits.

The current study found causal detrimental effects of T2DM on several cancers. Genetically predicted fasting insulin levels were positively associated with cancers of the uterus, kidney, pancreas, and lung. There was limited evidence supporting causal associations between fasting glucose and cancer.

Most existing analysis methods for genome-wide association studies (GWAS) perform only univariate regression. We extend and efficiently implement iterative hard thresholding (IHT) for multiple regression, treating all SNPs simultaneously. In our simulations, IHT recovers up to 30% more true predictors than SNP-by-SNP association testing.

Overweight/obese participants who reported alcohol consumption above the guidelines had a greater HR for liver disease incidence and mortality than normal weight individuals. The results for the associations of alcohol consumption and WC with ALD, NAFLD and liver disease mortality were similar.

Little is known about the relation between the long-term joint exposure to various ambient air pollutants and the incidence of heart failure (HF) This study included 432 530 participants free of HF, atrial fibrillation, or coronary heart disease in the UK Biobank study. All participants were enrolled from 2006 to 2010 and followed up to 2018.

Study was a bidirectional two-sample Mendelian randomisation (MR) analysis. It found increased kidney function was significantly associated with increased FEV 1 /FVC z-scores. The PGS for increased eGFR showed a significant association with a reduced risk.

Large copy-number variants (CNVs) are strongly associated with both developmental delay and cancer. We used microarray data from UK Biobank to investigate the prevalence and penetrance of large autosomal CNVs and chromosomal aneuploidies. There was no evidence of mosaicism in the blood for many of these large CNVs.

Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common neurological sensorimotor disorder. We report findings from a meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies of RLS. At four of the 22 RLS loci, cis-eQTL analysis indicates a causal impact on gene expression.

AAM is a highly polygenic puberty trait associated with various diseases later in life. Both AAM and diseases associated with puberty timing vary by race or ethnicity. The majority of GWAS of AAM have been performed in European ancestry women. We analysed a total of 38 546 women who did not have predominantly European ancestry backgrounds.

A growing number of genetic loci have been shown to influence individual predisposition to type 2 diabetes (T2D) Despite longstanding interest, the ability to detect significant gene-gene interaction (GGI) effects has been limited to date. We combined recent advances in the fine-mapping of causal T2D risk variants with the increased sample size available within UK Biobank.

Psoas muscle measurements are frequently used as markers of sarcopenia and predictors of health. Manually measured cross-sectional areas are most commonly used, but there is a lack of consistency regarding the position of the measurement. We have developed a fully automated method to measure iliop soas muscle volume. Magnetic resonance images were obtained from the UK Biobank for 5000 participants.

Genome-wide association study (GWAS) on 477,522 individuals revealed five loci significantly associated with same-sex sexual behavior. All tested genetic variants accounted for 8 to 25% of variation in same- sex sexual behavior, but only partially overlapped between males and females.

Machine learning model predicts glaucomatous optic nerve head features from color fundus photographs. Model used to predict vertical cup-to-disc ratio (VCDR) in 65,680 Europeans in the UK Biobank. A GWAS of ML-based VCDR identified 299 independent genome-wide significant hits in 156 loci.

The human cerebral hemispheres show a left-right asymmetrical torque pattern, which has been claimed to be absent in chimpanzees. The functional significance and developmental mechanisms are unknown. Here, we carried out the largest-ever analysis of global brain shape asymmetry in magnetic resonance imaging data.

In large population studies such as the UK Biobank (UKBB), quality control of the acquired images by visual assessment is unfeasible. We apply a recently developed fully-automated quality control pipeline for cardiac MR (CMR) images to the first 19,265 short-axis (SA) cine stacks from the UKBB.

In the present study, we performed an exome-wide investigation of the burden of rare disease-causing variants for major depressive disorder (MDD) using 16,702 samples from UK biobank. Gene-based association analysis and candidate gene prioritization analysis indicated that FOXH1 have significant association with MDD.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified thousands of genetic variants that are associated with complex traits. A stringent significance threshold is required to identify robust genetic associations. Leveraging relevant auxiliary covariates has the potential to boost statistical power to exceed the significance threshold.

The accuracy of polygenic risk scores (PRSs) to predict complex diseases increases with the training sample size. PRSs are generally derived based on summary statistics from large meta-analyses of multiple genome-wide association studies (GWASs) It is now common for researchers to have access to large individual-level data as well as the UK Biobank data.

CliP (Correlated Liability Predictors) is a method to detect heterogeneity in single GWAS cohorts. It calculates a weighted sum of correlations between SNPs contributing to a PRS on the case/control liability scale. We apply CLiP to heterogeneity detection in schizophrenia cohorts totaling > 50, 000 cases and controls.

 genetic predisposition for complex traits often acts through multiple tissues at different time points during development. Here we describe a statistical approach that leverages tissue-specific expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) corresponding to tissue- specific genes. We show that our approach can predict the relevant tissue accurately and can cluster individuals according to their tissue- Specific genetic architecture.

There is increasing evidence that many risk loci found using genome-wide association studies are molecular quantitative trait loci. Here we introduce a new set of functional annotations based on causal posterior probabilities of fine-mapped molecular cis-QTLs. We show that these annotations are more strongly enriched for heritability across 41 diseases and complex traits.

The large majority of variants identified by GWAS are non-coding. Existing high-throughput computational predictors have lacked large gold standard sets of regulatory variants for training and validation. Here, we leverage a set of 14,807 putative causal eQTLs in humans. We use 6121 features to directly train a predictor of whether a variant modifies nearby gene expression.

It is unclear how to best combine case-control status and family history of disease. We developed an association method based on posterior mean genetic liabilities under a liability threshold model. LT-FH was 63% (standard error (s.e.) 6%) more powerful than GWAS.

Genetic predisposition to low birth weight and childhood obesity were associated with higher risk of adult T2D. These excess risks were attenuated by adherence to a healthy lifestyle in adulthood, particularly among those at high genetic risk of childhood obesity.

We conducted the first large-scale general population study on lifestyle risk factors (smoking, physical inactivity, obesity, and excessive alcohol intake) for COVID-19. Participants were 387,109 men and women (56.4 +/- 8.8 yr; 55.1% women) residing in England.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have recurrently associated sequence variation nearby LIN28B with pubertal timing, growth and disease. This study sought to elucidate the mechanisms behind these associations. Using CRISPR-Cas9 technology, we first generated lin28b knockout (KO) zebrafish. Compared to controls, the KO fish showed both accelerated growth tempo and reduced adult size.

To efficiently transform genetic associations into drug targets requires evidence that a particular gene, and its encoded protein, contribute causally to a disease. We employ a three-step proteome-by-phenome Mendelian Randomization (MR) approach. Step 2 yielded 38 proteins that significantly predicted variation in traits and diseases in 509 instances.

Comorbidities including ischemic heart disease (IHD) worsen outcomes after SARS-CoV-2 infections. High lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] concentrations are a strong risk factor for IHD and possibly for thromboembolic events.

Tobacco smoking is the leading cause of preventable death globally. Smoking quantity is influenced both by the age of onset of regular smoking (AOS) and by genetic factors, including a strong effect of the nonsynonymous single-nucleotide polymorphism rs16969968. A previous study by Hartz et al. reported an interaction between these two factors.

Carotid artery atherosclerotic disease (CAAD) is a risk factor for stroke. We used a genome-wide association (GWAS) approach to discover genetic variants associated with CAAD in participants in the electronic Medical Records and Genomics (eMERGE) Network. We identified adult CAAD cases and controls without evidence of stenosis from electronic health records at eight eMERGE sites.

A total of 158,444 subjects from UK Biobank were used in this study. We found negative associations of long-term antibiotic use during early life with remembrance (p value=1.74 × 10-6, b = -0.10) and intelligence. We also found positive associations with anxiety and depression.

Women in the UK Biobank age 40 to 69 years who reported &#8805;1 live birth were included. Of 220,024 women included, 2,808 (1.3%) had prior HDP. Women with HDP had elevated arterial stiffness indexes and greater prevalence of chronic hypertension.

Survivors of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (aSAH) frequently suffer from cognitive dysfunction. The aim of this study was to assess the characteristics of cognitive dysfunction following aSAH and explore whether cognitive deficits mediate employment outcome.

 weak grip strength is associated with a range of adverse health outcomes. The factors associated with change in grip strength in mid-life remain to be fully determined. We used data from 44,315 UK Biobank participants.

Study included 283 657 participants in paid employment or self-employed without AF and 276 009 participants free of CHD, stroke, and HF at baseline in the UK Biobank. During a median follow-up of 10.4 years, 5777 incident AF cases were documented. Usual or permanent night shifts were associated with the highest risk.

The identification of disease alleles underlying human autoinflammatory diseases can provide important insights into the mechanisms that maintain neutrophil homeostasis. Here, we focused our attention on generalized pustular psoriasis (GPP), a potentially life-threatening disorder presenting with cutaneous and systemic neutrophilia.

Delirium is common in older adults, especially following hospitalization. Low vitamin D levels may be associated with increased delirium risk. We used time-to-event models to estimate hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs)

High levels of testosterone have been associated with better lung function in cross-sectional population-based studies. We studied 5114 men and 5467 women in the UK Biobank with high-quality spirometry at baseline (2006-2010) and 8.4 years later. Men with higher levels of TT had higher FEV 1 (27.56 mL per interquartile range increase TT) and FVC (48.06 mL, 95% CI 22.07-74.06) at baseline. In women, higher FAI and cFT levels were associated with lower lung function.

The COVID-19 pandemic has created an urgent need for robust, scalable monitoring tools supporting stratification of high-risk patients. This research aims to develop and validate prediction models. The model design and feature selection enables utility in outpatient settings.

Whole-exome sequencing data derived from 1181 female breast cancer patients within the UK Biobank was collected. We found feature genes (n = 50) regarding total mutation burden using the long short-term memory model. Then, we developed the XGBoost survival model with selected feature genes.

Polygenic prediction has the potential to contribute to precision medicine. Clumping and thresholding (C+T) is a widely used method to derive polygenic scores. We find that optimizing over these four hyper-parameters improves the predictive performance of C+T in both simulations and real data applications.

Pleiotropy (i.e., genes with effects on multiple traits) leads to genetic correlations between traits and contributes to the development of many syndromes. Identifying variants with pleiotropic effects on health-related traits can improve the biological understanding of gene action and disease etiology.

Maternal smoking (MS) is associated with low birthweight (BW) but adult obesity in offspring. It remains unknown whether it modifies offspring's genetic susceptibility to obesity on BW, adult body weight, and birth-to-adulthood body weight tracking pattern.

Meat consumption has been cross-sectionally associated with dementia risk. Specific amounts and types related to risk of incident dementia remain poorly understood. We aimed to investigate associations between meat consumption and risk of dementia in the UK Biobank cohort.

Deletions spanning the STS (steroid sulfatase) gene at Xp22.31 are associated with X-linked ichthyosis, corneal opacities, testicular maldescent, cardiac arrhythmia, and higher rates of developmental and mood disorders. The consequences of duplication of the same genomic region have not been systematically assessed in large or adult samples.

In clinical applications, using erroneous segmentations of medical images can have dramatic consequences. Current approaches dedicated to medical image segmentation automatic quality control do not predict segmentation quality at slice-level (2D), resulting in sub-optimal evaluations. Our 2D-based deep learning method simultaneously performs quality control at 2D and 3D levels for cardiovascular MR image segmentations.

Rare monogenic disorders of the primary cilium, termed ciliopathies, are characterized by extreme presentations of otherwise common diseases. We performed association studies of 16,874 common genetic variants across 122 ciliary genes. 101 statistically significant associations were identified across 42 of the 122 examined ciliopathy genes.

There is evidence that lower height is associated with a higher risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) and increased risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D) It is not clear though whether these associations are causal, direct or mediated by other factors. Here we show that one standard deviation higher genetically determined height (~6.5 cm) is causally associated with 16% decrease in CAD risk. We observe no direct causal effect of height on the risk of T2D.

Recent analyses have shown educational attainment to be associated with a number of health outcomes. This association may, in part, be due to an effect of educational attainment on smoking behaviour. In this study, we apply a multivariable Mendelian randomisation design to determine whether the effect is due to educational attainment or general cognitive ability.

Gut microbiota GWAS in 1126 twin pairs from the TwinsUK study were used as exposure data. The gut microbiota were classified at family, genus, and species levels. Results of MR analyses provided evidence of a causal association between 3 microbiota features and TFM.

How insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is related to OA is not well understood. We determined relationships between IGF-1 and hospital-diagnosed hand, hip and knee OA in UK Biobank, using Mendelian randomization (MR) to determine causality. Using 1SMR, we found strong evidence for an increased risk of hip [odds ratio per. s.d. increase&#x2009;=&#X2009;1.21, 2.01] and knee [1.30 (1.07, 1.58)] OA with increasing IGF- 1 concentration. By contrast, there was no evidence for a causal effect of IGF-one

Study aims to estimate the impact of obesity on annual inpatient healthcare costs in the UK using linked data from the UK Biobank and Hospital Episode Statistics (HES)

Study included 14,550 postmenopausal female participants in the UK Biobank. Earlier age at menopause was significantly and independently associated with smaller left ventricular end-diastolic volume and smaller stroke volume.

Education is inversely associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD) Several mediators of this have been established; however, a proportion of the protective effect remains unaccounted for. Mental health is a proposed mediator, but current evidence is mixed and subject to bias from confounding factors.

The UK Biobank (UKB) is a highly promising dataset for brain biomarker research into population mental health. In this study, we aimed to provide a shared foundation for UKB neuroimaging research into mental health with a focus on anxiety and depression.

We identified shared genetic determinants of Crohn's Disease (CD), a type of inflammatory bowel disease, and body height. The association of PRS-CD with height was replicated in UK Biobank (p = 1.1 × 10-5) and an independent cohort of 510 CD cases and controls.

Smoking is a major heritable and modifiable risk factor for many diseases. Fourteen genetic loci have previously been associated with smoking behaviour-related traits. We tested up to 235,116 single nucleotide variants (SNVs) on the exome-array for association with smoking initiation, cigarettes per day, pack-years, and smoking cessation.

Rapid decline of glomerular filtration rate estimated from creatinine (eGFRcrea) is associated with severe clinical endpoints. We meta-analyzed 42 genome-wide association studies from the Chronic Kidney Diseases Genetics Consortium and United Kingdom Biobank. Seven independent variants were identified across six loci for Rapid3 and/or CKDi25. Individuals at high compared to those at low genetic risk had a 1.20-fold increased risk of acute kidney injury.

Obesity is among the main determinants of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease progression towards severe liver disease (SLD) Risk factors for SLD in individuals with obesity have not been examined.

Biomarkers of low-grade inflammation have been associated with susceptibility to a severe infectious disease course, even when measured prior to disease onset. We investigated whether metabolic biomarkers measured by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy could be associated with. susceptibility to severe pneumonia and severe COVID-19.

Aging and obesity-related conditions seem to worsen the effect of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) We studied 353,299 UK Biobank participants from England with a mean age of 67.7 years. Vitamin D insufficiency and metabolic/obesity phenotypes were significantly associated with illness severity.

Study included 220 622 PCa-free men with baseline measurements of triglycerides (TGs), HDL-cholesterol (HDL), glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), blood pressure (BP), and waist circumference (WC) A total of 5409 men in the study developed PCa during a median follow-up of 6.9 years. No associations were found with PCa risk and individual measurements of TG, HDL, BP, or WC. However, an inverse association was observed with elevated Hb a1c (&#8805;42 mmol/mol)

We identified 19 new low-frequency or rare (minor allele frequency (MAF)   5%) pLOF variant-metabolite associations. A small minority ( 400,000 subjects in UK Biobank - with metabolites.

Methylmercury (MeHg) is an environmental neurotoxin with human exposure mainly from dietary intake of contaminated fish. Exposure to MeHg has been implicated in neurological damage, but research on its role in cancers, specifically glioma, is limited. Toenail Hg was not found to be significantly associated withglioma risk.

White matter fiber tracts demonstrate heterogeneous vulnerabilities to aging effects. We estimated age-related differences in tract properties using UK Biobank diffusion magnetic resonance imaging data of 7167 47- to 76-year-old neurologically healthy people. The dominant pattern was lower generalized fractional anisotropy and higher axial diffusivity.

Midlife clustering of vascular risk factors has been associated with late-life dementia. causal effects of individual biological and lifestyle factors remain largely unknown. Adherence to the biological metrics of LS7 (blood pressure, cholesterol, glycemic status) was associated with lower incident dementia risk.

Migraine often co-occurs with gastrointestinal disorders, but the direction of a potential causal link is unclear. Study examined whether migraine is associated with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), peptic ulcers, Helicobacter pylori (HP) infections, celiac disease, Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Migraine was significantly associated with IBS.

Higher milk intake has been associated with a lower stroke risk, but not with risk of CHD. Residual confounding or reverse causation cannot be excluded. We estimated the causal association of milk consumption with stroke and CHD risk through instrumental variable (IV) and gene-outcome analyses.

Mitochondrial genome copy number (MT-CN) varies among humans and across tissues and is highly heritable. When measured by bulk DNA sequencing in blood, MT-CN may reflect a combination of the number of mitochondria per cell and cell-type composition. Using a Mendelian randomization framework, we show evidence that MT- CN measured in blood is causally related to insulin levels.

The prognosis for most patients with esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) is poor. Models developed to identify patients at risk for EAC and increase early detection have been developed based on data from case-control studies. We analyzed data from a prospective study to identify factors available to clinicians that identify individuals with a high absolute risk of EAC.

UK Biobank study looked at demographic, lifestyle, socioeconomic and clinical risk factors for COVID-19. Compared them to risk Factors for pneumonia and influenza in UK Biobanks. modifiable risk factors were higher body mass index and higher glycated haemoglobin (HbA1C) Smoking, slow walking pace as a proxy for physical fitness and use of blood pressure medications were also associated with lower risk.

The glucagon receptor is involved in maintaining blood glucose and amino acid homeostasis. Naturally occurring missense variants of G protein-coupled receptors with loss of function have been linked to metabolic disease in case studies and in animal experiments. We performed molecular pharmacological phenotyping of 38 variants with previously suggested clinical implications.

Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses are now possible to assess causal links between diurnal preference and food intake. We used genetic variants associated with a morning preference from a genome-wide association meta-analysis. We also examined potential causal effects on objectively captured response performances to email-administered 24-h diet recalls.

The increasing liver-related mortality calls for hepatic surveillance programs. We analyzed mortality data from 467,558 individuals recruited by the community-based UK Biobank. Only homozygous TM6SF2 mutation and SERPINA1 mutation conferred elevated overall mortality.

Brisk walking and a greater muscle strength have been associated with a longer life. Brisk walkers had a survival advantage over slow walkers, irrespective of the degree of engagement in other lifestyle behaviours, except for smoking.

Mosaic loss of Y chromosome (mLOY) is the most frequently detected somatic copy number alteration in leukocytes of men. Associations between mLOY and blood cell counts were assessed by multivariable linear models adjusted for relevant risk factors. Stratified analyses indicate these associations are independent of the effects of aging and smoking.

Magnesium is integral to many physiological processes. variations in its levels, even within the normal range, can have critical implications for health. We performed a two-sample Mendelian randomization and phenome-wide association study (MR-PheWAS) in the UK Biobank cohort.

Mendelian randomization (MR) is an established approach to evaluate the effect of an exposure on an outcome. We used PHESANT to test for the presence of effects of smoking heaviness, instrumented by genetic variant rs16969968, among never and ever smokers respectively. We ranked results by the strength of interaction between ever and never smokers. Novel results included a detrimental effect of heavier smoking on facial aging.

The clinical approval process is able to filter out medications whose utility does not offset their adverse drug reaction profile in humans. With a growing abundance of real-world evidence databases containing hundreds of thousands of patient records, it is now feasible to build machine learning models.

Brain age is becoming a widely applied imaging-based biomarker of neural aging and potential proxy for brain integrity and health. We estimated multimodal and modality-specific brain age in the Whitehall II (WHII) MRI cohort using machine learning. Cardiovascular risk factors, including high blood pressure, alcohol intake, and stroke risk score, were each associated with brain aging.

Most brain-age research uses structural neuroimaging to index brain volume. However, aging affects multiple aspects of brain structure and function, which can be examined using multimodality neuroim imaging. Brain-age paradigm is proving increasingly useful for exploring aging-related disease.

periodontitis is a multifactorial condition linked to increased risk of systemic diseases. This study aimed to identify disease trajectories of people with periodontitis using the process mining technique as a heuristic approach.

There is emerging interest in multimorbidity in type 2 diabetes. It can be either concordant (T2D related) or discordant (unrelated) This study explores associations between. total condition counts, baseline HbA1c, and all-cause. mortality in people with T2D.

We conducted PrediXcan analysis of hydrocephalus risk in ten neurological tissues and whole blood. Decreased expression of MAEL in the brain was significantly associated.

Cross-species translational approaches to human genomic analyses are lacking. The present study uses an integrative framework to investigate how genes associated with nicotine use in model organisms contribute to the genetic architecture of human tobacco consumption.

There is a paucity of longitudinal research examining how multiple lifestyle factors relate to depressed mood. We assessed relationships between 6 key lifestyle factors and depressed mood in individuals with a history of or current MDD and healthy controls (HCs) Cross-sectional analyses were performed in the UK Biobank baseline sample.

Weighted burden analysis has been used in exome-sequenced case-control studies to identify genes in which there is an excess of rare and/or functional variants associated with phenotype. Implementation in a ridge regression framework allows simultaneous analysis of all variants along with relevant covariates such as population principal components.

Biologically Annotated Neural Networks (BANNs) are a nonlinear probabilistic framework for association mapping in genome-wide association (GWA) studies. BANNs are feedforward models with partially connected architectures that are based on biological annotations. The software uses variational inference to provide posterior summaries.

Glaucoma is a disease characterized by progressive optic nerve degeneration. A polygenic risk score (PRS) enables effective risk stratification in unselected glaucomA cases. The PRS will facilitate the development of a personalized approach for earlier treatment of high-risk individuals.

T2DM has a substantial genetic component with an estimated heritability of 40-70%. More than 500 genetic loci have been associated with T2DM. One tool for risk assessment is genome-wide genetic risk scores (GRS)

Existing TWAS methods focus on analyzing one outcome trait at a time. Many complex traits are correlated with each other and share a common genetic basis. analyzing multiple traits jointly through multivariate analysis can potentially improve the power of TWASs.

Human variation in brain morphology and behavior are related and highly heritable. It is largely unknown to what extent specific features of brain morphology are genetically related. Here, we introduce a computationally efficient approach to estimate the genetic correlation between a large number of phenotypes simultaneously.

Whole brain estimation of the haemodynamic response function (HRF) is critical to get insight on the global status of the neurovascular coupling of an individual in healthy or pathological condition. Most of existing approaches in the literature works on task-fMRI data and relies on the experimental paradigm as a surrogate of neural activity.

Genetic evidence of disease association has often been used as a basis for selecting of drug targets for complex common diseases. The propagation of genetic evidence through gene or protein interaction networks has been shown to accurately infer novel disease associations at genes for which no direct genetic evidence can be observed. An empirical test of the utility of combining these approaches for drug discovery has been lacking.

Neuroimaging PheWAS is a web-based system for searching over a wide variety of brain-wide imaging phenotypes to discover true system-level gene-brain relationships. This design features a user-friendly graphical user interface for anonymous data uploading, study definition and management.

Neuroticism is associated with poor health outcomes, but its contribution to the accumulation of health deficits in old age is largely unknown. We aimed to explore associations between neuroticism and frailty cross-sectionally and longitudinally, and to investigate the contribution of shared genetic influences.

Personality traits, such as neuroticism, are postulated to be robust predictors of health and health behaviours. To date neuroticism in emergency personnel has primarily been associated with adverse health outcomes. High neuroticism was positively associated with poorer subjective health outcomes in all emergency personnel.

Excessive alcohol consumption is one of the main causes of death and disability worldwide. Alcohol consumption is a heritable complex trait. We identified 46 new common loci and investigated their potential functional importance.

Migraine is the most common neurological cause of disability worldwide. Migraine heritability is estimated to up to 57%. Much of the genetic risk remains unaccounted for, especially in non-European ancestry populations.

Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) radiomics may capture subtle cardiac changes associated with these two diseases providing new insights into the brain-heart interactions. We extracted 446 shape, first-order, and texture radiomics features from three regions of interest in end-diastole and end-systole.

Individual differences in human perception of sweetness are partly due to genetics. Which genes are associated with the perception and the consumption of sweet substances remains unclear. The aim of this study was to verify previous reported associations within genes involved in the peripheral receptor systems and reveal novel loci.

European Working Group on Sarcopenia in Older People (EWGSOP) established a new operational definition and cut-off points for sarcopenia. The aim of this study was to compare the prevalence of sarc Openia and its associations with different health outcomes in the UK Biobank cohort.

SCN9A gene variants, in particular a c.1921A>T p.(Asn641Tyr) substitution, have been identified as a likely autosomal dominant cause of febrile seizures. The Amish community has seizure phenotypes indistinguishable from those associated with SCN1A.

For many traits, estimates of genetic effects may be inflated by passive gene-environment correlation. Biological offspring inherit both their genotypes and rearing environment from their parents. We found no evidence for inflation of heritability or polygenic scores in non-adoptees compared to adoptees for a range of body composition traits.

Upper respiratory tract infections are reportedly more frequent and more severe in individuals with lower vitamin D levels. Based on these findings, it has been suggested that vitamin D can prevent or reduce the severity of COVID-19. We used two-sample Mendelian randomisation (MR) and genome-wide association analysis (GWA) to assess the causal effect of vitamin D.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have revealed that the genetic contribution to certain complex diseases is well-described by Fisher's infinitesimal model. Of 146 GWAS variants examined in a discovery sample of 228,423 individuals, only 8 had even nominal evidence of non-additive effects.

Visceral adipose tissue (VAT) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance (IR), prediabetes and type 2 diabetes. VAT volume alone might not be the best marker for insulin resistance and predi diabetes or diabetes, as a given VAT volume may impact differently on these metabolic traits based on body height, gender, age and ethnicity.

Pairwise comparison problems arise in many areas of science. This approach is very efficient for calling identical by descent (IBD) segments between all pairs of individuals in the UK Biobank dataset. This efficiency should extend to other methods of IBD calling.

There is a growing interest in fast and reliable assessment of abdominal visceral adipose tissue (VAT) volume for risk stratification of metabolic disorders. However, imaging based measurement of VAT is costly and limited by scanner availability. We aimed to develop equations to estimate abdominal VAT volume from simple anthropometric parameters.

Assumptions are made about the genetic model of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) when choosing a traditional genetic encoding. We present a novel and flexible encoding for genetic interactions, the elastic data-driven genetic encoding (EDGE) EDGE outperformed the traditional encoding methods across 10%, 30%, and 50% minor allele frequencies (MAFs)

Study looked at genetics of weighted functional brain network graph theory measures. 18,445 participants of the UK Biobank (44-80 years) showed low heritability. One genome-wide significant locus was associated with strength of somatomotor and limbic networks.

DNA methylation and gene expression are known to play important roles in the etiology of human diseases such as prostate cancer (PCa) However, it has not yet been possible to incorporate this information into polygenic risk scores (PRSs) Here, we aimed to develop and validate an improved PRS for PCa risk by incorporating genetically predicted gene expression and DNA methylation.

One region suggested to play a key role in the pathophysiology of obesity is the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) We performed a meta-analysis of findings regarding NAcc volume and overweight/obesity. We additionally examined whether grey matter volume in the NAcc and other mesolimbic areas depends on the longitudinal trajectory of obesity.

We used data from the UK Biobank to assess the risk of COVID-19 mortality associated with various anthropometric measures in women and men. A higher body mass index (BMI), waist circumference, waist-to-hip ratio and waist- to-height ratio were each associated with a greater risk of death in both sexes. The relative effects of a higher BMI on COVID19 mortality may be stronger in women than men.

Obesity has been associated with increased risk of accelerated cognitive decline and dementia, which suggests underlying neurobiological changes. To investigate the associations between obesity and brain structure (overall and regional brain volumes, and white matter microstructure) assessed at MRI, 12 087 participants underwent 3.0-T multiparametric brain imaging.

Obesity is an emerging risk factor for coronavirus disease-2019. Simple measures of physical fitness, such as self-reported walking pace, may also be important risk markers. Slow walkers had the highest risk regardless of obesity status.

Sleep is vital for all physical and mental health. Many sleep-related studies depend on self-reported sleep measurements, which have limitations. This study aims to investigate the association of physical activity and sociodemographic characteristics including age, gender, coffee intake and social status.

The study was a cross-sectional dietary investigation using UK Biobank data and MR analysis. Higher vegetable intake was cross-sectionally associated with a higher eGFR and lower odds of CKD. The association with CKD remained nonsignificant.

Around 10% to 15% of COPD burden can be attributed to workplace exposures. Little is known about the role of different airborne occupational pollutants (AOP) High exposure to vapours increased the risk of occupational AFO by 26%.

Current consensus is to combine a functional measure with muscle quantity to assess/confirm sarcopenia. However, the proper body size adjustment for muscle quantity is debated. Further, functional measures are not muscle-specific or sensitive to etiology. For effective detection/treatment/follow-up, muscle- specific biomarkers linked to function are needed.

We investigate the behavior of the Lasso for selecting invalid instruments in linear instrumental variables models. Invalid instruments are such that they fail the exclusion restriction and enter the model as explanatory variables. We propose a median estimator that is consistent when less than 50% of the instruments are invalid. This estimator can be used for adaptive Lasso estimation.

Quantitative traits analyzed in Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) are often nonnormally distributed. For such traits, association tests based on standard linear regression are subject to reduced power and inflated type I error in finite samples. Applying the rank-based inverse normal transformation (INT) has become common practice in GWAS.

There is no single widely-accepted standard pipeline for analyzing functional connectivity. We investigated strengths and short-comings, both independently and jointly, of the following measures. We have run more than 9000 different pipeline variants on a total of &#8764;14000 individuals.

It is unknown how sequential drug patterns convey information on a patient's health status and treatment guidelines rarely account for this. In this cohort study, we used 24 years of data (1.1 billion prescriptions) from the Danish prescription registry to model the risk of sequentially redeeming a drug after another.

Previous small-scale studies have found that oral antidiabetic therapy is associated with sleep difficulties among patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) Here, we used data from 11 806 T2D patients from the UK Biobank baseline investigation.

The aim was to investigate whether there are underlying functional connectivity differences between humans that relate to food reward. In 37 286 humans from the UK Biobank, resting-state functional connectivities of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), especially with the anterior cingulate cortex, were positively correlated with the liking for sweet foods.

Many phenotypes more naturally take ordered, discrete values. Dichotomizing can lead to a range of arbitrary cutoff values, generating inconsistent, hard to interpret results. Using multinomial regression ignores trait value hierarchy and potentially loses power. This approach increases power and leads to more interpretable results.

Parent-of-origin effects (POE) exist when there is differential expression of alleles inherited from the two parents. A genome-wide scan for POE on DNA methylation in 5,101 individuals identifies 733 independent methylation CpGs potentially influenced by POE. Methylation variation at 14 of the POE-influenced CpGS is associated with multiple metabolic traits.

Human longevity is moderately heritable and is influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. There remains considerable uncertainty regarding its relationship with brain aging. We found lower volumes of WMHs to be significantly associated with longer parental life span in the discovery and replication samples.

Previous studies of the association between parity and long-term cognitive changes have focused on women. We found that in both females and males, having offspring was associated with a faster response time and fewer mistakes made in the visual memory task.

We perform unsupervised analysis of image-derived shape and motion features extracted from 3,822 cardiac Magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs) of the UK Biobank. After analysis, we identify 2 small clusters that probably correspond to 2 pathological categories.

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and schizophrenia have been conceived as partly opposing disorders in terms of systemizing vs. empathizing cognitive styles. Left-right asymmetry of the brain is an important aspect of its organization that shows average differences between the sexes and can be altered in both ASD and schizophrenia. Polygenic risks for the two disorders were positively correlated and both were higher in females compared to males.

We used data from the UK Biobank linked to laboratory confirmed test results for SARS-CoV-2 infection and mortality data from Public Health England between March 16 and July 26, 2020. We derived a multimorbidity index including: angina, asthma, cancer, chronic kidney disease, heart failure, hypertension, myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation, peripheral vascular disease and stroke.

75.7% of participants with RA had multimorbidity. These individuals were at increased risk of all-cause mortality and MACE. Of the comorbid LTCs studied, osteoporosis was most strongly associated with adverse outcomes.

Single nucleotide polymorphism-based genetic risk score (GRS) has been developed and validated for prostate cancer (PCa) risk assessment. As GRS is population standardized, its value can be interpreted as a relative risk to the general population. A prospective cohort was derived from the UK Biobank where 208 685 PCa diagnosis-free participants were followed.

Perinatal light may imprint the circadian timing system, subsequently affect later life physiology, and possibly disease risk. We combined individual time-of-year of birth and corresponding latitude to determine perinatal photoperiod characteristics for UK Biobank participants. Increased 3 rd  trimester relative range was associated with decreased odds of DM (OR 0.63 95%CI 0.49-0.81) in the NEP group.

Observational research suggests that periodontitis affects pulmonary function. However, observational studies are subject to confounding and reverse causation. We used Mendelian randomization to assess the potential causal association.

Copy-number variations (CNVs) represent a significant proportion of the genetic differences between individuals. Many CNVs associate causally with syndromic disease and clinical outcomes. We characterize the landscape of copy-number variation and their phenome-wide effects in a sample of 472,228 array-genotyped individuals.

Childhood obesity is reported to be associated with the risk of many diseases in adulthood. We aimed to systematically assess the causal associations between childhood body mass index (BMI) and various adult traits/diseases. We found that higher childhood BMI was associated with low calorie density food intake.

Data-driven discovery of patterns of population variability in the brain has the potential to be extremely valuable for early disease diagnosis and understanding the brain. The resulting patterns can be used as imaging-derived phenotypes (IDPs)

For pancreatic cancer, traditional methods for screening have been largely unsuccessful in identifying high-risk individuals in advance of disease progression. Electronic health records (EHR) linked to genetic profiles provide an opportunity to integrate multiple sources of patient information for risk prediction and stratification.

Anhedonia is a core symptom of multiple psychiatric disorders and has been associated with alterations in brain structure. Few studies have explored the association between genetic loading for anhedonia and structural brain imaging phenotypes. We found that state anhedoni was significantly associated with reduced total grey matter volume.

Hyperlipidemia is traditionally considered a risk factor for type 2 diabetes (T2D) Evidence has emerged from statin trials and candidate gene investigations suggesting that lower LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) increases T2D risk. We sought to more comprehensively examine the phenotypic and genotypic relationships of LDL-C with T1D.

We analysed data from 47,456 premenopausal and 126,704 postmenopausal women in UK Biobank. Physical activity was self-reported at baseline, and at resurvey in a subsample of 6443 participants.

Physical activity may reduce the risk of some types of cancer in men. Biological mechanisms may involve changes in hormone concentrations. However, this relationship is not well established. We aimed to investigate associations of physical activity with circulating hormones.

Previous studies have identified physical activity as an important lifestyle factor in the pathogenesis of chronic liver diseases (CLD) It is unknown whether physical activity affects the risk of liver disease development in the general population. We analysed data from 96,688 participants that recorded their physical activity through the use of a wrist accelerometer. Walking an additional 2,500 steps per day was associated with 44% reduction in liver disease progression.

Physical activity (PA) is recommended as one of the main lifestyle behaviours. We assessed the benefits of PA on mortality and life expectancy in people with and without multimorbidity. Leisure-time PA and total PA were measured by questionnaire.

It is unclear what combinations of physical capability markers used to define sarcopenia have the strongest associations with health outcomes. 469,830 UK Biobank participants were included in this prospective study. Outcomes studied were all-cause mortality, as well as incidence and mortality from cardiovascular disease (CVD), respiratory disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Mean Platelet Volume (MPV), a cell trait partially associated with markers of platelet activity, is more commonly available. We investigated the association of metabolic syndrome and diabetes with platelet aggregation to three physiological agonists, ADP, collagen, and epinephrine, in the Framingham Heart Study Offspring cohort. After a median of 18.1 years follow-up, no Platelet aggregation trait was associated with increased risk of diabetes ( n  = 344 cases).

Osteoporosis and obesity are two severe complex diseases threatening public health worldwide. Both diseases are under strong genetic determinants as well as genetically correlated. We identified one novel locus, 17q21.31, which may have pleiotropic effects to both hip BMD and TBFM. KIF18B, C1QL1, and PRPF19 were highlighted as candidate genes.

We identified 2 novel loci at 2q37.1 and 6q26 for bone mineral density and bone size. Findings provide insight into common genetic architecture underlying both traits.

 Epilepsy is clinically heterogeneous, and neurological or psychiatric comorbidities are frequently observed in patients. It has not been tested whether common risk variants for generalized or focal epilepsy are enriched in people with other disorders or traits related to brain or cognitive function. Here, we perform two brain-focused phenome association studies of polygenic risk scores (PRS) for generalized epilepsy and focal epilepsy for 334,310 European-ancestry individuals of the UK Biobank.

We analyzed the genomic architecture of neuroanatomical diversity using magnetic resonance imaging and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data. SNPs captured from 40% to 54% of regional brain volume variance. Chromosomal length correlated with the amount of phenotypic variance captured, r ~ 0.64 on average.

Telomeres, the end fragments of chromosomes, play key roles in cellular proliferation and senescence. Here we characterize the genetic architecture of naturally occurring variation in leukocyte telomere length (LTL) We identify causal links between LTL and biomedical phenotypes in 472,174 well-characterized UK Biobank participants.

Polygenic scores (PGS) for eight common diseases, disorders, or traits, including psychiatric disorders, were calculated in 274 participants (125 mood disorder cases) who each reported three or four grandparents born in the community. Ancestry-matched controls were selected from the UK Biobank (UKB; three sets of N = 1,822 each) The mean PGSs were significantly higher in the U.S. community for major depression, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. The results are consistent with enrichment of polygenic risk factors for psychiatric disorders in this community.

Using polygenic risk scores (PRS) from a European-ancestry genome-wide association study in generalized and focal epilepsy, we quantified common genetic burden. Across 8386 patients with epilepsy and 622 212 population controls, we found and replicated significantly higher GE-PRS in patients with generalized epilepsy compared to patients with focal epilepsy. European ancestry-derived PRS did not predict generalized epilepsy or focal epilepsy in Japanese-ANCestry individuals.

We examined whether polygenic risk scores (PRS) for consumption and problem subscales of the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT-C, AUDIT-P) in the UK Biobank (UKB; N = 121 630) correlate with alcohol outcomes in four independent samples. In COGA, AUDit-P PRS was associated with alcohol dependence, AUD symptom count, maximum drinks, and increased likelihood of onset of alcohol dependence.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) provide an opportunity to understand risk factors since they reflect etiologic pathways from the entire genome. We tested the association of a CHD PRS with CHD and its traditional clinical risk factors amongst individuals with type 2 diabetes in UK Biobank.

Research has shown differences in subcortical brain volumes between participants with schizophrenia and healthy controls. None of these differences have been found to associate with schizophrenia polygenic risk. In a large sample (n = 14,701) of unaffected participants from the UK Biobank, we test whether schizophreniapolygenic risk scores (PRS) are limited to specific gene-sets. We compare associations with schizophrenia PRS at the whole genome level.

Polygenic risk models have led to significant advances in understanding complex diseases and their clinical presentation. While polygenic risk scores (PRS) can effectively predict outcomes, they do not generally account for disease subtypes or pathways which underlie within-trait diversity. Here, we introduce a latent factor model of genetic risk based on components from Decomposition of Genetic Associations (DeGAs)

A combination of healthy lifestyles is associated with lower risk of depression regardless of genetic risk. Data were obtained from the UK Biobank and consisted of 339,767 participants (37-73 years old) without depression between 2006 and 2010.

Organ-transplant recipients have an elevated risk of keratinocyte cancers. The top 20% PRS individuals had an absolute risk of 23%. The risk in the bottom 20% was similar to that in the general nontransplantee population. The BCC PRS improves prediction over and above the traditional skin cancer risk factors by 3%.

There is growing evidence that polygenic risk scores (PRSs) can identify individuals with elevated lifetime risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) Whether they can also be used to stratify the risk of subsequent events among those surviving a first CAD event remain uncertain, with possible biological differences between CAD onset and progression.

Genome-wide association studies have revealed numerous loci for kidney function (eGFR) The relationship between polygenic predictors of eGFR, risk of incident adverse kidney outcomes, and the plasma proteome is not known. We developed a genome-wide polygenic risk score (PRS) for eG FR. We then tested the association of the PRS with incident CKD, ESKD, kidney failure, and AKI.

Type 2 diabetes increases the risk of cardiovascular and renal complications. Early risk prediction could lead to timely intervention and better outcomes. Genetic information can be used to enable early detection of risk.

Solid organ transplant recipients (SOTRs) have elevated risks for basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) We assessed whether polygenic risk scores can improve the prediction of BCC and SCC risks and multiplicity.

Osteoporosis and ischemic heart disease (IHD) represent important public health problems. Existing research suggests an association between the two conditions beyond that attributable to shared risk factors. In this study, we tested the association of bone speed of sound (SOS) from quantitative heel ultrasound with measures of arterial compliance from cardiovascular magnetic resonance.

Previous studies link obesity and components of metabolic health to increased hospitalizations and mortality of patients with COVID-19. We investigate whether metabolic health as measured by waist circumference, dyslipidemia, hypertension, type 2 diabetes, and systemic inflammation is related to increased infection and mortality rate.

Machine learning can be used to build proxy measures of psychological constructs. We built proxy measures by applying machine learning on multimodal MR images and rich sociodemographic information from the largest biomedical cohort to date: the UK Biobank.

The social brain hypothesis proposes that the complexity of human brains has coevolved with increasing complexity of social interactions in primate societies. The present study explored the possible relationships between brain morphology and the richness of more intimate 'inner' and wider 'outer' social circles.

We investigated associations between brain structure and anthropometric and body composition measures using brain magnetic resonance imaging. Anthropometric measures showed negative, nonlinear, associations with cerebellar/cortical gray matter, and brain stem structures. Adipose tissue measures, including liver fat and muscle fat infiltration, were negatively associated with cortical/cerebellum structures.

Maternal brain adaptations have been found across pregnancy and postpartum. Little is known about the long-term effects of parity on the maternal brain. Parous women showed less evidence of brain aging compared to their nulliparous peers.

Few prospective studies have evaluated the relation between fat-soluble vitamins and glioma risk. In 346,785 participants (444 cases) in UKB, associations with vitamin D were evaluated by Cox proportional hazards regression. In NHS (52 cases, 104 controls) and HPFS (32 cases, 64 controls), associations with 25(OH)D, vitamin A (retinol), and vitamin E were assessed using conditional logistic regression. Nonsignificant associations were observed for &#945;-tocopherol.

A model was trained on 84,743 retinal fundus photos from the UK Biobank dataset. The model performed significantly worse when foveal pathology was present in the external validation dataset. Automated machine learning (AutoML) may enable clinician-driven automated discovery of novel insights and disease biomarkers.

Study looked at risk of cancer for 367,703 individuals in the UK Biobank. Variants in the HMGCR gene region were associated with overall cancer risk. But variants in gene regions representing alternative lipid-lowering treatment targets were not. This suggests that statins reduce cancer risk through a cholesterol independent pathway.

Study aimed to determine whether risk prediction based on common genetic variants might enable stratification for CRC risk. Meta-analysis of 11 genome-wide association studies comprising 16 871 cases and 26 328 controls was performed. A weighted PRS of 116 CRC single nucleotide polymorphisms was found with the best predictive performance.

Both clinical and genetic factors drive the risk of venous thromboembolism. Whether clinically recorded risk factors and genetic variants can be combined into a clinically applicable predictive score remains unknown. Using Cox proportional-hazard models, we analyzed the association of risk factors.

Hospitalized COVID-19 patients tend to be older and frequently have hypertension, diabetes, or coronary heart disease. Preexisting diagnoses of dementia, type 2 diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pneumonia, depression, atrial fibrillation, and hypertension emerged as independent risk factors. Chronic kidney disease and asthma were risk factors for hospitalization in women but not men.

Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), a respiratory disease of unknown origin, has a high rate of morbidity and mortality. Individuals with mental disorders may have a higher risk of infection and worse clinical outcomes because of a variety of factors such as poorer general resilience and lower immune function.

Poorer performance on standard tests of pre-morbid cognitive function is related to an elevated risk of death from lower respiratory tract infections. But the link with coronavirus (COVID-19) mortality is untested. Participants in UK Biobank, aged 40 to 69 years at study induction (2006-10), were administered a reaction time test.

 Essential fructosuria (EF) is a benign, asymptomatic, autosomal recessive condition caused by loss-of-function variants in the ketohexokinase gene. Despite a basic understanding of the genetic and molecular basis of EF, relatively little is known about the long-term clinical consequences of these variants. We examined the frequency of keto hexokinase variants in a UK Biobank sample.

Uveitis describes intraocular inflammation of the uveal tract. It may occur in the absence of a predisposing underlying condition. An association with Multiple Sclerosis (MS) has been observed.

This cohort study examines the prevalence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in the UK Biobank population. The study was published in the British Journal of Cardiology.

Preserved ratio impaired spirometry (PRISm) is a precursor to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) Previous research has indicated that PRISm is associated with respiratory symptoms. We aimed to determine the prevalence, risk factors, clinical implications, and mortality of PRism in a large adult general population.

To identify candidate causal genes of asthma, we performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in UK Biobank. The GWAS reveals 72 asthma-associated loci from 116 independent significant variants (PGWAS)

The relationship between natural selection and phenotypic variation has been a long-standing challenge in human population genetics. We calculated a per-individual deleterious load score by summing the total number of derived alleles per individual after incorporating a weight that approximates strength of purifying selection. The load score amongst coding sites had an excess of nominally significant associations on many medical phenotypes.

Hypertension-associated cardiovascular events are particularly associated with elevated systolic blood pressure (SBP) in late life. Long-term interactions between SBP, diastolic BP (DBP) and arterial stiffness in development of late-life hypertensive phenotypes remain unclear. In 169 742 participants at baseline, ASI was more strongly associated with DBP than SBP.

Loneliness is linked to increased risk for Alzheimer's disease. Little is known about factors potentially contributing to adverse brain health in lonely individuals. We used data from 24,867 UK Biobank participants to investigate risk factors related to loneliness.

We investigated the associations of estimated free and total circulating testosterone and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) with cancer risk in men and postmenopausal women. Risk was estimated using multivariable-adjusted Cox regression in up to 182 608 men and 122 112 women who were cancer-free at baseline. In men, higher free testosterone was associated with higher risks of melanoma and prostate cancer.

Study assesses prospective associations between vitamin D status and depression in middle-aged adults enrolled in the UK Biobank. Findings suggest both vitamin D deficiency and insufficiency might be risk factors for the development of new-onset depression.

Sleep duration was not associated with incident glioma in either the UKB or the NHS/HPFS cohorts. Results did not materially change after lagging 2 years, or after accounting for factors known to disrupt sleep.

Study: Better protein nutritional status may contribute to prevention of frailty. outcome measure was the Rockwood frailty index (FI) based on 49 deficits from 356,432 individuals (53.3% of them were women) In the full sample, genetically predicted serum total protein was inversely associated with FI.

A lack of genetic data across generations makes transgenerational Mendelian randomization (MR) difficult. We used UK Biobank and a novel proxy gene-by-environment MR to investigate effects of maternal smoking heaviness in pregnancy on offspring health. Each additional smoking-increasing allele in offspring (G1) was associated with a 0.018 kg lower birthweight in maternal (G0) smoking stratum.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) analyses have become an integral part of biomedical research. PRSice-2 is an efficient and scalable software program for automating PRS analyses on large-scale data.

Anxiety and depression are more important comorbidities of long-term cognitive change than diabetes and cardiovascular disease, and demographic factors. Findings suggest that psychiatric disorders may have a deleterious effect on long- term cognition.

Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and major depressive disorder (MDD) are commonly reported co-occurring mental health consequences of psychological trauma exposure. The disorders have high genetic overlap. Research suggests that trauma sensitivity has a heritable basis. We investigated whether sensitivity to trauma in those with MDD reflects a similar genetic component.

Schizophrenia is a highly heritable disorder with considerable phenotypic heterogeneity. Assessing genetic risk and psychotic-like experiences (PLEs) in non-clinical populations can offer valuable insights into symptom-associated brain mechanisms.

PWAS aggregates the signal of all variants jointly affecting a protein-coding gene. It assesses their overall impact on the protein's function using machine learning and probabilistic models.

The growing sample size of genome-wide association studies has facilitated the discovery of gene-environment interactions (GxE) We propose a maximum likelihood method to estimate the contribution of GxE to continuous traits. Applying our method to 32 traits in the UK Biobank reveals that GRSxE explains an additional 1.9%.

The proportion of variation in complex traits that can be attributed to non-additive genetic effects has been a topic of intense debate. Here, we present an efficient method to estimate the variation in a complex trait. We find that additive heritability on array SNPs is 21.86% while dominance heritability is 0.13%.

The thickness of the cerebral cortical sheet and its surface area are highly heritable traits. Despite large-scale efforts, the majority of their genetic determinants remain unknown. Our ability to identify causal genetic variants can be improved by employing brain measures that better map onto the biology we seek to understand.

Objective measures of physical activity (PA) derived from wrist-worn accelerometers are compared with traditional risk factors in terms of mortality prediction performance in the UK Biobank. Age was the best predictor of all-cause mortality.

Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) radiomics is a novel technique for advanced cardiac image phenotyping. In this paper, we assess, in the largest sample published to date, the performance of CMR radiomics models for identifying changes in cardiac structure and tissue texture due to cardiovascular risk factors. We evaluated five risk factor groups from the first 5,065 UK Biobank participants.

Inference of relationships from whole-genome genetic data of a cohort is a crucial prerequisite for genome-wide association studies. Current leading methods are based on pairwise comparisons, which may not scale up to very large cohorts (e.g., sample size >1 million) We propose an efficient relationship inference method, RAFFI.

iLASH is an algorithm based on similarity detection techniques. It shows equal or improved accuracy in simulations compared to current leading methods. It speeds up analysis by several orders of magnitude on genomic datasets. iLASH enables efficient analysis of very large-scale datasets.

IBIS is an IBD detector that locates long regions of allele sharing between unphased individuals. Phasing these with Beagle 5 takes 4.3 CPU days, followed by either Refined IBD or GERMLINE segment detection in 2.9 or 1.1 h. By comparison, IBIS finishes in 6.8 min with IBD2 functionality enabled: speedups of 805-946× including phasing time.

Current IBD detection methods are not efficient at such a scale. RaPID achieves a time and space complexity linear to the input size and the number of reported IBDs. In UK Biobank, RaP ID identified 3,335,807 IBD’s with a length &#8805; 10 cM among 223,507 male X chromosomes in 11 min.

Genome-wide association studies have identified numerous common genetic variants associated with spirometric measures of pulmonary function. We conducted a large-scale gene-smoking interaction meta-analysis on exonic rare and low-frequency variants involving 44,429 individuals of European ancestry.

Alterations in electrocardiographic (ECG) intervals are well-known markers for arrhythmia and sudden cardiac death (SCD) risk. We examined associations between low-frequency and rare coding variants with 5 routinely measured traits. We found that rare variants associated with population-based ECG intervals identify established monogenic SCD genes.

Using 200,000 UK Biobank (UKB) exomes, we assess the burden of ultra-rare, potentially pathogenic variants in the largest case/control cohort of predominantly mild CHD to date. We find an association with GATA6, a member of the GATA family of transcription factors that play an important role during heart development.

Protein-altering variants that are protective against human disease provide in vivo validation of therapeutic targets. We use genotyping data from UK Biobank (n = 337,151 unrelated White British individuals) and FinnGen (n + 176,899) to conduct a search for protein- altering variants conferring lower intraocular pressure (IOP)

UK Biobank contains detailed phenotypic data linked to medical records for approximately 500,000 participants. We studied relationships between rare protein-coding variants and 17,361 binary and 1,419 quantitative phenotypes. Gene-based collapsing analyses revealed 1,703 statistically significant gene-phenotype associations for binary traits.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death in women and men. Biological and social factors differ between the sexes. The importance of CVD in women may be underestimated due to the higher age-specific rates in men.

Machine-learning methods classified movement behaviours accurately in free-living accelerometer data. Reallocating time from any behaviour to MVPA was associated with lower CVD risk. This should be promoted by interventions and guidelines.

Study included up to 434,900 UK Biobank participants aged 37-73 years. Recent caffeine drinking (yes/no in the last hour) was recorded during a physical assessment. No significant and consistent effect modification by age, sex, smoking, test time, habitual caffeine intake, or CMS was observed.

Up to 447 794 UK Biobank participants aged 37-73 years in 2006-2010 provided a non-fasting blood sample. Men and women reporting recent caffeine drinking had clinically and significantly higher glucose levels than those not recently drinking caffeine.

Several recent papers have reported strong signals of selection on European polygenic height scores. These analyses used height effect estimates from the GIANT consortium and replication studies. Here, we describe a new analysis based on the the UK Biobank (UKB), a large, independent dataset. We find that the signals ofselection using UKB effect estimates are strongly attenuated or absent.

Study used UK Biobank data to estimate dietary patterns of healthy individuals. Data on fibre content in different foods were used to calculate the reference values which were then calibrated using real-world data on total fibre intake.

Diet may affect susceptibility of the inner ear to noise and age-related effects that lead to tinnitus and hearing loss. Study used complementary single nutrient and dietary pattern analysis based on statistical grouping of usual dietary intake in a large population study sample.

Study looked at the association of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) with pulmonary function measures on spirometry among subjects in the UK Biobank. RA was associated with lower FEV 1  % and FVC% compared to controls.

New evidence suggests a potential role of interleukin-6 pathways-trans-signaling with soluble interleuka-6 receptors in the asthma pathobiology. Despite the evidence for their associations with asthma, the causal role of soluble. interleuko-6 receptor remains uncertain. We investigated the relations of soluble InterleukIn-6. receptors with asthma and its major phenotypes.

Retinal neuroanatomy may be a biomarker for more neurodegenerative processes. Can be quantified in vivo using optical coherence tomography (OCT), which is inexpensive and noninvasive. We examined the association of neuroretinal morphology with brain MRI image-derived phenotypes.

U-shaped association observed for sleep duration and lung cancer risk. 18% higher risk for short sleepers compared with normal sleepers (7-8 h/day) Evening preference was associated with elevated lung cancerrisk compared with morning preference. No association was found for insomnia or snoring.

Red and processed meat has been associated with a higher risk of morbidity and mortality. This study examined the associations of red and processed. meat consumption with all-cause, cardiovascular, and cancer mortality. It investigated whether markers of physical function modified the associations.

UK Biobank is a health resource with data from over 500,000 adults. The cognitive assessment in UK Biobanks is brief and bespoke, and is administered without supervision on a touchscreen computer. Despite the non-standard nature of these tests and the limited psychometric information, the UKBiobank cognitive data have been used in numerous scientific publications.

Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a common, life-threatening complication of COVID-19 infection. However, it is unclear whether remote history of VTE also confers increased risk. Study looked at UK Biobank participants recruited between 2006 and 2010.

Sedentary time was quantified by summing up the time spent on television watching, computer use, and driving. The association was more profound among participants with a lower genetic risk of T2D.

The reproducibility of dietary intakes of macronutrients, food groups and dietary patterns (vegetarian and Mediterranean) was assessed in adults in the UK Biobank study on up to five occasions. Analyses of diet-disease relationships need to correct for both measurement error and within-person variability in dietary intake in order to reliably assess any such associations.

The diagnosis of multiple sclerosis is based on a combination of clinical and paraclinical tests. We tested the feasibility of OCT measures of retinal asymmetry as a diagnostic test for multiple sclerosis at the community level. Retinal OCT imaging is accurate, rapid, non-invasive and may help to reduce need for invasive and more costly procedures.

The aim of this study was to assess whether adiposity or body composition relates to microvascular characteristics of the retina. A fully automated QUARTZ software processed retinal images from 68,550 UK Biobank participants (aged 40-69 years) Differences in retinal vessel diameter and tortuosity with body composition measures from the Tanita analyzer were obtained.

Identifying gene-environment (G×E) interactions contributing to human cardiometabolic disorders is challenging. Here we apply a reverse G×E candidate search by deriving candidate variants from promoter-enhancer interactions. We then test all variants residing in lipid-responsive open chromatin sites for interaction effects between genotype and dietary saturated fat intake on body-mass index (BMI)

Ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast (DCIS) is considered to be a non-obligate precursor of invasive breast cancer (IBC) This suggests that risk factors for DCIS should be a subset of those for IBC. We investigated whether demographic, lifestyle, and reproductive factors that have been linked to IBC risk are also associated with DCIS risk.

Diabetes is observed to increase cancer risk, leading to hypothesized direct effects of hyperglycemia or medication. We investigated associations between glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) across the whole glycemic spectrum and incidence of 16 cancers in a population sample with comprehensive adjustment for risk factors and medication.

UK Biobank recruited 502 651 individuals aged 40-69 years across the UK during 2006-10. Road traffic noise (Lden and Lnight) exposure for 2009 was estimated at baseline address using a simplified version of the Common Noise Assessment Methods model. Exposure to road-traffic Lden >65 dB[A], as compared to &#8804;55dB[A] was associated with 0.77% [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.60%, 0.95%], 0.49% (95% CI 0.32%, 065%), 0.79% ( 95% CI 1.11%, 1.47%), and 0.12% (96% CI -0.04

Study aimed to investigate the effects of long-term exposure to road traffic noise and air pollution on incident cardiovascular disease (CVD) in three large cohorts: HUNT, EPIC-Oxford and UK Biobank.

Low lung function has been associated with increased body mass index (BMI) The aim of this study was to investigate whether the effect of BMI on lung function is mediated by DNA methylation. We used individual data from 285,495 participants in four population-based cohorts.

Concentrations of C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin 6 (IL-6) and other inflammatory markers are elevated in people with depression and anxiety compared to controls. Evidence for disorder-specificity, linearity and potential causality is sparse. Using population-based data from up to 144,890 UK Biobank cohort participants, we tested associations of circulating CRP concentrations.

The UK Biobank holds around 85,000 well-characterized saliva samples, together with blood and urine samples, the results of a battery of physiological tests, a full medical history and a detailed description of the subject's lifestyle.

Sarcopenia, the loss of muscle strength and mass, predicts adverse outcomes and becomes common with age. There is recognition that sarcopenia may occur at younger ages in those with long-term conditions (LTCs) as well as those with multimorbidity. We used data from 499 046 participants in the baseline of UK Biobank. The main outcome was probable sarc Openia based on maximum grip strength below sex-specific cut-points.

Sarcopenic obesity is defined as a combination of sarcopenia and obesity. Previous studies have shown a positive association between sarc Openia and respiratory disease. Other studies have identified that obese individuals have a lower risk for respiratory diseases. This study aimed to investigate the association of obesity, sarc openia and sarcopenic Obesity with respiratory disease incidence and mortality.

Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2. The role of skeletal muscle mass in modulating immune response is well documented. No study has examined the influence of both sarcopenia (low muscle mass) and obesity, termed 'sarcopenic obesity' on the risk of severe COVID- 19.

Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) has been identified as the entry receptor for coronaviruses into human cells. ACE2 gene is associated with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) that causes coronav virus disease 2019 (COVID-19)

SAIGE-GENE can efficiently analyze large-sample data (N > 400,000) with type I error rates well controlled. It is applicable to exome-wide and genome-wide region-based analysis for hundreds of thousands of samples.

Principal component analysis (PCA) is a key tool for understanding population structure and controlling for population stratification in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) There is a need for methods that can compute principal components (PCs) with scalable computational and memory requirements. We present ProPCA, a highly scalable method based on a probabilistic generative model, which computes the top PCs on genetic variation data efficiently.

Seasonal disease outbreaks are perennial features of human infectious disease. The factors generating these patterns are unclear. Here we investigate seasonal and daytime variability in multiple immune parameters in 329,261 participants in UK Biobank.

Shift work is associated with increased cardiometabolic disease risk. This observation may be partly explained by cardiometric risk factors having a role in the selection of individuals into or out of shift work. We performed Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses in the UK Biobank (UKB) to test this hypothesis. Liability to lower educational attainment and higher BMI may influence selection into shift work, but sleep timing preference did not.

The spatial signals in neuroimaging mass univariate analyses can be characterized in a number of ways. Peak locations and magnitudes provide a useful summary of activation. The magnitudes reflect selection bias as these points have both survived a threshold and are local maxima. We propose the use of resampling methods to estimate and correct this bias.

Age-related hearing impairment (ARHI) is very common in older adults and has major impact on quality of life. The heritability of ARHI has been estimated to be around 50%. The present study aimed to estimate heritability and environmental contributions to liability of AR HI.

Poor sleep is associated with multiple age-related neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric conditions. The hippocampus plays a special role in sleep and sleep-dependent cognition. accelerated hippocampal atrophy is typically seen with higher age. It is critical to establish how relationship between sleep and hippocampal volume loss unfolds across the adult lifespan.

Intrinsic functional flexibility is evident in the brain's dynamic ability to switch between alternative spatiotemporal states during resting state. The relationship between brain connectivity states, associated psychological functions during restingState, and the changes in normal aging remain poorly understood.

Urine dipstick tests are widely used in routine medical care to diagnose kidney and urinary tract and metabolic diseases. Several environmental factors are known to affect the test results, whereas the effects of genetic diversity are largely unknown. We tested 32.5 million sequence variants for association with urinary biomarkers in a set of 150 274 Icelanders.

Serum testosterone concentrations decline with age, while serum sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) concentrations increase. Men with lower testosterone had a higher mortality rate from any cause. Lower SHBG is independently associated with lower all-cause, CVD-related, and cancer-related mortality.

Serum urate is the most abundant small molecule with antioxidant properties. It is found in blood and the epithelial lining fluid of the respiratory system. Raised measured urate was associated with a lower baseline FEV1.

There is ongoing debate about the associations between drug therapies targeting the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) and adverse outcomes in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) This study aims to examine associations between using medications for the cardiovascular system and the risks associated with CO VID-19 in middle-aged and older adults.

Experiences of reported trauma are common and are associated with a range of mental health problems. Sex differences in how reported traumas are experienced over the life course in relation to mental health require further exploration.

Males and females present differences in complex traits and in the risk of a wide array of diseases. Genotype by sex (GxS) interactions are thought to account for some of these differences. However, the extent and basis of GxS are poorly understood.

Sex differences in major cardiovascular risk factors for incident (fatal or non-fatal) all-cause dementia were assessed in the UK Biobank. Smoking, diabetes, high adiposity, prior stroke and low SES were associated with a greater risk of dementia. Sex difference in the effect of raised BP was consistent for dementia subtypes (vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease)

A total of 471,971 UK Biobank participants without a history of cardiovascular disease were included. During 9 years of follow-up, 4,662 (44% women) cases of stroke were recorded. Hypertension, smoking, and a low socioeconomic status were associated with a greater HR of any stroke in women than men.

 type 2 diabetes is a stronger risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD) in women compared with men. However, it is not clear whether this reflects a sex differential in the causal effect of diabetes on CHD risk or results from sex-specific residual confounding. We performed a sex-stratified Mendelian randomization (MR) study using individual participant data in UK Biobank.

Sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) has been reported to be a risk factor associated with the development of arthritis. This study aimed to determine whether the concentrations of circulating SHBG are causally associated with risk of OA, RA, and AS.

Testosterone is a critical determinant of health in both genders. Relationship between circulating levels of testosterone and mortality remains undetermined. We examined associations of serum total testosterone (TT) and free testosterone (FT) with all-cause and cause-specific mortality in 154 965 men and 93 314 postmenopausal women from UK Biobank.

Elevated Lp(a) levels are associated with coronary artery disease (CAD), ischemic stroke (IS), and calcific aortic valve stenosis (CAVS) Studies investigating the association between Lp('a') levels and these diseases in women have yielded inconsistent results. To investigate the association of Lp'a' with sex-specific cardiovascular outcomes, we determined the association using individual participant data from the UK Biobank.

Insulin resistance may have sex-specific effects on the reproductive axis. Impaired kidney function may also cause insulin resistance. We assessed these possibilities using bi-directional, sex- specific, two-sample Mendelian randomisation.

Genetically predicted insulin is positively associated with ischemic heart disease. Sex differences are unclear, despite different disease rates and reproductive strategies by sex. Mitigating the effects of insulin might address sexual disparities in health.

Chronic pain is highly prevalent worldwide and imparts a significant socioeconomic and public health burden. Sex is thought to play a significant role, and chronic pain is more prevalent in women than in men. We carried out a sex-stratified genome-wide association study of Multisite Chronic Pain.

Recalled childhood sexual and physical abuse were both associated with current depressive symptoms score in adults. Higher risk of suicidal behaviours associated with childhood sexual/physical abuse are of particular concern. Longitudinal research into sex-specific associations for individual depressive symptoms is required.

Study looked at data from the UK Biobank on individuals with asthma. Found 61 independent asthma loci: 23 were childhood-onset specific, one was adult-onsets specific, and 37 were shared. 19 loci were associated with age of asthma onset.

Heart muscle diseases hypertrophic (HCM) and dilated (DCM) cardiomyopathies are leading causes of sudden death and heart failure in young, otherwise healthy individuals. We conducted genome-wide association studies and multi-trait analyses in HCM (1,733 cases), DCM (5,521 cases) and nine left ventricular (LV) traits (19,260 UK Biobank participants with structurally normal hearts) We identified 16 loci associated with HCM, 13 with DCM and 23 with LV traits.

 Epidemiological studies demonstrate an association between asthma and mental health disorders. Little is known about the shared genetics and causality of this association. We found a strong genetic correlation with ADHD, ANX and MDD at the genome-wide level.

Data from UK Biobank participants who were tested for COVID-19 infection. Ethnic minorities and people in night-shift-based jobs had a significantly higher prevalence of infection. Shift workers, particularly night shift workers, seem to be at high risk.

Shift work is associated with lung disease and infections. We investigated the impact of shift work on significant COVID-19 illness. 501&#x2009;000 UK Biobank participants were linked to secondary care SARS-CoV-2.

Short sleep duration was a significant moderator of new BP medicine use in shift workers. Among short sleepers, shift workers had a 2.1-fold increased odds of new blood pressure medicine use compared with nonshift workers. Interaction between circadian preference and shift work on BP Medicine use was nonsignificant.

Both physical inactivity and poor sleep are deleteriously associated with mortality. But the joint effects of these two behaviours remain unknown. This study aimed to investigate the joint association of physical activity (PA) and sleep with all-cause and cause-specific mortality risks.

Short sleepers had a 20% higher multivariable-adjusted risk of incident MI. Healthy sleep duration mitigated MI risk even among individuals with high genetic liability. Investigation of sleep extension to prevent MI may be warranted.

Study included 385 292 participants initially free of CVD from UK Biobank. Participants with poor sleep pattern and high genetic risk showed the highest risk of CHD and stroke. Nearly 10% of cardiovascular events in this cohort could be attributed to poor sleep.

Analysis of sleep data from 41,094 participants (51.9% females) with a median age of 57 years. Socio-economic disadvantage, ethnic minority background, shift work, unhealthy lifestyle, poor health, depressive symptoms and obesity were the main risk factors associated with poor sleep.

There is little evidence about smoking and risk of infection. We aim to examine association between smoking and COVID-19 infection and subsequent mortality. Participants who lived in England were followed up from 01/02/2020 to 28/06/2020.

 Meta-analyses and Mendelian randomization (MR) may clarify the associations of smoking, blood cells and myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) We investigated the association of smoking with blood cells in the Danish General Suburban Population Study (GESUS, n = 11 083) and MR of smoking variant CHRNA3 (rs1051730[A]) in UK Biobank. Smoking is observationally and genetically associated with increased leukocyte counts and red blood cell indices (MCH, MCV, RDW) and observationally with risk of MPN.

Whether smoking-associated DNA methylation has a causal effect on lung function has not been thoroughly evaluated. We first investigated the causal effects of 474 smoking- associated CpGs on forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV 1 ) in UK Biobank (n = 321,047) and then replicated this investigation in the SpiroMeta Consortium. By using "moloc", we found evidence of shared causal variants between lung function, gene expression, and DNA methylated. These findings highlight potential therapeutic targets for improving lung function and possibly smoking cessation.

Of 472 946 participants alive when COVID-19 was first apparent in the UK, 217 (34% women) died from the disease over the next 10 months. Greater social deprivation, quantified using the Townsend Deprivation Score, was associated with greater risk of fatal COVD-19.

We explored the role of socioeconomic inequalities in COVID-19 incidence among cancer patients during the first wave of the pandemic. Compared with the least deprived cancer patients, those living in the most deprived areas had an almost three times higher risk of testing positive. This socio-demographic profiling of vulnerable cancer patients at increased risk of infection can inform prevention strategies and policy improvements for the coming pandemic waves.

 Variant Call Format (VCF) suffers rapid size growth as larger cohorts are sequenced. Sparse Project VCF delivers >10× size reduction for modern studies with practically minimal information loss. We demonstrate its effectiveness with the DiscovEHR and UK Biobank whole-exome sequencing cohorts.

There is increasing interest in using data-driven unsupervised methods to identify structural underpinnings of common mental illnesses. However, studies are often limited to severe clinical cases with small sample sizes and most do not include replication. Here, we examine two relatively large samples with structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), measures of lifetime MDD and cognitive variables.

Little is known about the association between speech-in-noise (SiN) hearing impairment and dementia. In 82,039 dementia-free participants aged &#8805;60 years, 1285 participants developed dementia. Insufficient and poor SiN hearing were associated with a 61% and 91% increased risk of developing dementia, respectively.

Researchers found that 90% of human genetic loci are associated with more than one trait. Recently, multivariate methods have been proposed to effectively identify pleiotropy. The statistical performance in natural biomedical data is largely known.

The pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes (T2D) might change with increasing age. Here, we used a stratification based on age of diagnosis to gain insight into the genetics and causal risk factors of T2D across different age-groups. We identified 208 independent lead single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs) mapping to 69 loci associated with T1D.

Brain structural networks have been shown to consistently organize in functionally meaningful architectures covering the entire brain. To what extent brain structural architectures match the intrinsic functional networks in different functional domains remains under explored. In this study, based on independent component analysis, we revealed 45 pairs of structural-functional (S-F) component maps.

 associations between indices of brain structure and measured intelligence are unclear. This is partly because the evidence to-date comes from mostly small and heterogeneous studies. Here, we report brain structure-intelligence associations on a large sample from the UK Biobank study.

Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common disorder with an increased risk for left ventricular and right ventricular dysfunction. Most studies to date have examined populations with manifest cardiovascular disease using echocardiography. Our aim was to explore these parameters with cardiac MRI. We analyzed cardiac MRI data from 4978 UK Biobank participants free from cardiovascular disease.

Modified Haseman-Elston regression has been found a bridge that connects and develops various parallel heritability estimation methods. We applied this method to 81 traits in UK Biobank data and compared the chromosome-wise partition heritability with the whole-genome heritability.

ChREBP (carbohydrate responsive element binding protein) is a transcription factor that responds to sugar consumption. Sugar-sweetened beverage (SSB) consumption and genetic variants in the CHREBP locus have separately been linked to HDL-C (high-density lipoprotein cholesterol) and triglyceride concentrations. We hypothesized that SSB consumption would modify the association between genetic variants and dyslipidemia.

Identifying genetic biomarkers for brain connectivity helps us understand genetic effects on brain function. The challenge in detecting associations between brain connectivity and genetic variants is that the phenotype is a matrix rather than a scalar. We study a new concept of super-variant for genetic association detection.

A supervariant is a combination of alleles in multiple loci, but the contributing loci can be anywhere in the genome. We hypothesize that supervariants are easy to detect and the aggregated signals are more stable in their associations with the disease.

The prediction performance of Cox proportional hazard model suffers when there are only few uncensored events in the training data. This scenario is common in the UK Biobank dataset. By analyzing these responses together, we hope to achieve higher prediction performance than when they are analyzed individually.

Cross-sectional study consisted of 25 261 self-reported White UK Biobank participants with major depression. Four broad symptom dimensions were identified, encompassing negative cognition, functional impairment, insomnia and atypical symptoms. Every dimension was associated with increased risk of nearly every psychiatric diagnosis and polygenic risk score.

Depression and anxiety are highly prevalent and comorbid psychiatric traits that cause considerable burden worldwide. We use factor analysis and genomic structural equation modelling to investigate the genetic factor structure underlying 28 items assessing depression, anxiety and neuroticism. Symptoms of depression and anxiety loaded on two distinct, although highly genetically correlated factors.

Systemic inflammation markers have been linked to increased cancer risk and mortality. Few studies have estimated pre-diagnostic associations of systemic inflammation markers and cancer risk. Blood cell ratios could serve as biomarkers of cancer incidence risk with potential for early identification of disease.

We tested associations between genetically determined telomere length and aging-related health outcomes. Data were from n = 379,758 UK Biobank participants aged 40-70, followed up for mean of 7.5 years. Genetically determined longer telomer length was associated with lowered risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) but raised risk of cancer.

PMR-Egger is a probabilistic Mendelian randomization (MR) method for TWAS applications. It unifies many existing TWAS and MR methods, accommodates multiple correlated instruments, and tests the causal effect of gene on trait in the presence of horizontal pleiotropic effects. We illustrate its benefits in applications to 39 diseases and complex traits from three GWASs including the UK Biobank.

Recent research suggests genetic variation in the Klotho locus may modify the association between APOE &#603;4 and cognitive impairment. We tested for associations and interactions between these genotypes versus risk of dementia, cognitive abilities and brain structure in older UK Biobank participants.

The observational analyses included 159,702 women (80% postmenopausal) enrolled in the UK Biobank. Higher circulating concentrations of testosterone and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) were associated with higher endometrial cancer risk. No association was found between genetically predicted IGF-1 concentration and endometriosis risk.

Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is a well-established modulator of aging and longevity in model organisms. Its role in humans has been controversial. In this study, we used the UK Biobank to resolve previous ambiguities in the relationship between serum IGF-1 levels and clinical disease.

The association between body fat composition and risk of cancer in normal weight individuals (body mass index (BMI) 18.5-24.9 kg/m2) is unclear. We examined the association of measures of adiposity with risk of incident cancers of the breast (postmenopausal), endometrium, ovary and colon/rectum.

Little is known about the associations between obesity-related blood markers and risk of breast cancer among these individuals. We examined associations of glycated hemoglobin, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, C-reactive protein (CRP), testosterone and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) A total of 1268 postmenopausal breast cancer cases were ascertained during a median follow-up period of 7 years.

Study investigates relationship of blood lipid and lipoprotein levels with leukocyte counts in the UK Biobank cohort. A higher eosinophil count was associated with lower HDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-I concentration.

Loneliness significantly predicted acute (OR:1.887; 95%CI1.857-1.917) and chronic pain. Poor sleep has a potential mediating effect on these associations. Exploration of pain in loneliness and social exclusion in the general population is warranted.

Fossil fuels dominate domestic heating in temperate climates. Reducing domestic demand temperatures would reduce energy demand. But cold exposure has been shown to be associated with adverse health conditions.

UK Biobank study included 198,285 men and women aged 40-69 years. Of whom 3166 (1.6%) died over a mean of 7 years follow-up. All-cause mortality was associated with total sugar intake and sugar-sweetened beverages.

Little is known about the bidirectional association of these two behaviors. The present analyses included 38,601 UK Biobank participants. Physical activity was categorized by the weekly metabolic equivalent of task minutes.

Age-related loss of white matter microstructural integrity is a major determinant of cognitive decline, dementia and gait disorders. We identified 18 loci that were associated at genome-wide significance with either mean diffusivity or fractional anisotropy. Among the top loci was a region on chromosome 6 encoding the human major histocompatibility complex (MHC)

Reverse causality has made it difficult to establish the causal directions between obesity and prediabetes and obesity and insulin resistance. We performed a Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses in non-diabetic individuals. Our results suggest that both predi diabetes and systemic insulin resistance are caused by obesity (p = 1.2×10-3)

Genetically predicted higher blood levels of iron and copper are both associated with lower risks of iron deficiency anemia and hyperlipidemia. Consistently, they are also associated withLower blood. levels of total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol.

Pulmonary inflammatory responses lie under circadian control. However, the importance of circadian mechanisms in the underlying fibrotic phenotype is not understood. Here, we identify a striking change to these mechanisms resulting in a gain of amplitude and lack of synchrony within pulmonary Fibrotic tissue.

Study looked at 245,731 control and 55,114 statin-taking individuals from the UK Biobank. Cognitive performance in terms of reaction time, working memory and fluid intelligence was analysed. The effect of statin use differed considerably between the two age groups.

We use attributable fraction to compare the relative contribution of genetic, dietary, urate-lowering therapy (ULT) and other exposures to HU. We use Mendelian randomisation to test for the causality of diet in urate levels.

There is evidence in humans for genetic influences on the probability (P boy ) that a birth yields a boy instead of a girl. To quantify this variation, we analyze the survey data from over 300,000 UK Biobank participants born between 1940 and 1970. We find that the observed deficit in SR variation is explainable by 3.3% of "coupon-collecting" families.

Lonely individuals display stronger functional communication in the default network, and greater microstructural integrity of its fornix pathway. The findings fit with the possibility that the up-regulation of these neural circuits supports mentalizing, reminiscence and imagination.

It has recently been shown that epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) contributes to the pathogenesis of pain. We found that only epiregulin (EREG) was associated with pain. The strongest effect was observed for a minor allele at rs6836436 in EREG. We investigated the functional role of EREG using mouse models of chronic and acute pain.

Duffy-null (CC) genotype at rs2814778 in the ACKR1 gene. 21% of those with the Duffy-null genotype (21%) had a neutrophil count below the threshold often used as a cut-off for access to relevant treatments, compared with 1% of people with the TC/TT genotype. Despite its strong association with lower average neutrophIL counts, the Duffy null genotypes was not associated with an increased risk of infection, viral or bacterial.

Human genetic variants predicted to cause loss-of-function of protein-coding genes (pLoF variants) can be valuable indicators of gene function and the potential toxicity of therapeutic inhibitors targeting these genes. We systematically analyze pLoF. variants in LRRK2 observed across 141,456 individuals sequenced in the Genome Aggregation. Database (gnomAD)9, 49,960 exome-sequenced individuals from the UK Biobank and. over 4 million participants in the 23andMe genotyped dataset.

There are limited evidences clarifying the impact of metabolic syndrome (MS) and its components on head and neck cancer (HNC) incidence risk. We explored the correlation between MS, MS components, and the combined effects of MS and C-reactive protein (CRP) and HNC risk.

Whole-brain structural networks can be constructed using diffusion MRI and probabilistic tractography. Faithful disentanglement of spurious and genuine connections is hindered by a lack of comprehensive anatomical information at the network-level.

There is substantial variation in the timing of significant reproductive life events such as menarche and first sexual intercourse. Life history theory explains this variation as an adaptive response to an individual's environment. It is important to examine how traits within life history strategies affect each other.

A growing literature has sought to tie educational attainment with later-life cognition and Alzheimer's disease outcomes. We find that the effects of education on cognition are confounded by family background factors and by genetics. College graduates have cognition scores that are approximately 0.75 SD higher than those who report no credentials.

Biobanks linked to electronic health records provide rich resources for health-related research. However, there are many obvious and subtle challenges with the design and analysis of biobank-based studies. We summarize the current body of literature for addressing these challenges.

Anxiety and depressive disorders can be classified under a bidimensional model. Depression and generalized anxiety disorder are represented by distress and the other anxiety disorders, by fear. Twin studies only show partial evidence for genetic and environmental distinctions between distress and fear.

Appendicular lean mass (ALM) is a heritable trait associated with loss of lean muscle mass and strength. Its genetic determinants are largely unknown. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) with 450,243 UK Biobank participants to uncover its genetic architecture.

Left-right hemispheric asymmetry is an important aspect of healthy brain organization. It can be altered in cognitive and psychiatric disorders. No mechanism has yet been identified for establishing the human brain's left-right axis.

UK Biobank data (N = 220,685) evaluated the association between five female reproductive traits and polygenic risk scores (PRS) projected from genome-wide association study summary statistics of six psychiatric disorders. We found that the PRS of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) was strongly associated with age at first birth (AFB)

The genetic architecture of testosterone is highly distinct between sexes. Obesity is associated with higher testosterone in females but lower testosterone in males. We ask whether male-specific testosterone variants are associated with a male pattern of obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2D) in females.

The sensitivity of electrocardiogram (ECG) criteria to detect left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is low, especially in women. We determined sex-specific sensitivities of ECG-LVH criteria, and developed new criteria, using cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) Newly developed Groningen- LVH criterion for women outperformed all ECG. criteria with a sensitivity of 42% (95% CI 35-49%). In men, newly developed criterion was equally sensitive as 12-lead sum.

Rheumatic heart disease (RHD), an autoinflammatory heart disease, was recently declared a global health priority by the World Health Organization. Here we report a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of RHD susceptibility in 1,163 South Asians and 1,459 Europeans. We identify a novel susceptibility signal in the class III region of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex that clearly replicates in the Europeans.

Human-specific duplications at chromosome 16p11.2 mediate recurrent pathogenic 600 kbp BP4-BP5 copy-number variations, which are among the most common genetic causes of autism. These copy- number polymorphic duplications are under positive selection and include three to eight copies of BOLA2, a gene involved in the maturation of cytosolic iron-sulfur proteins. We assessed hematological traits and anemia prevalence in 379,385 controls and individuals who have lost or gained copies.

Inherited genetic variation contributes to individual risk for many complex diseases and is increasingly being used for predictive patient stratification. Previous work has shown that genetic factors are not equally relevant to human traits across age and other contexts. We find evidence for age-varying relative risk profiles in nine diseases.

The aim of this study was to quantify the impact of periodontal disease on hospital admission and mortality during the COVID-19 pandemic. Painful gums, bleeding gums and loose teeth were reported in 2.7, 11.2 and 3.3% of participants with CO VID-19 infection. Risk of infection in participants with painful gums was not increased compared to controls.

Common and rare variants have been implicated in the risk of developing atrial fibrillation (AF) The effect of genetic variants on risk of AF compared with established modifiable risk factors is unclear. We used whole exome sequencing data of 49,881 individuals and genotyping data of 408,572 individuals from the UK Biobank to examine the associations of TTN variants, polygenic risk, and 4 risk factors with AF.

Sarcopenia and frailty are strongly associated with disease incidence and mortality. However, there is limited evidence regarding their joint association with health outcomes. This study aimed to investigate the joint association of sarcopenia. with cardiovascular disease (CVD), respiratory disease and cancer incidence and. mortality in middle-aged and older adults.

Genetic mechanisms of immune response to viral infection provide insight into disease etiology and therapeutic opportunities. We identified specific amino acid (AA) residues that are associated with seroreactivity. The strongest associations were found for Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), Varicella zoster virus (VZV), human herpesvirus 7, (HHV7), and Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCV)

A SH2B3 missense variant (rs3184504) is associated with cardiovascular diseases plus breast, colorectal, and lung cancers. Data were obtained from 379,758 European-descent UK Biobank participants aged 40-70 at baseline.

Study used the UK Biobank cohort, a large sample of middle aged and older adults in the UK. Participants with type 2 diabetes had a significantly shorter digit span than those without diabetes. Comorbid conditions explain some of the observed association between type 2 Diabetes and cognitive deficits.

First release of Medical Genome Reference Bank (MGRB) comprises whole genome sequence and phenotype of 2570 elderly Australians depleted for cancer, cardiovascular disease, and dementia. MGRB individuals have fewer disease-associated common and rare germline variants, relative to both cancer cases and the gnomAD and UK Biobank cohorts.

Working memory is a basic human cognitive function. However, the genetic signatures and their biological pathway remain poorly understood. In the present study, we explored the potential associations and pathways among genetic variants, brain morphometry and working memory performance.

Occupational exposures are important, preventable causes of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) Identification of COPD high-risk jobs is key to focus preventive strategies. A definitive job-list is unavailable.

Schizophrenia, Bipolar Disorder and Major Depressive Disorder have increased risk of cardiometabolic disease. We explored whether genetic variation could identify sub-groups with different metabolic profiles. Loci associated with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder were selected.

Blood cells play essential roles in human health, underpinning physiological processes such as immunity, oxygen transport, and clotting. When perturbed cause a significant global health burden. Here we integrate data from UK Biobank and a large-scale international collaborative effort, including data for 563,085 European ancestry participants.

Glaucoma is more common in urban populations than in others. Ninety percent of the world's population are exposed to air pollution above World Health Organization (WHO) recommended limits. Few studies have examined the association between air pollution and glaucomas.

We investigated the relationship between glycemia and cognitive function, brain structure and incident dementia using bidirectional Mendelian randomization (MR) Data were from the UK Biobank ( n  = &#8764;500,000). Our exposures were genetic instruments for type 2 diabetes (157 variants) and HbA 1c  (51 variants) We also investigated associations between genetic variants for RT (43 variants)  and diabetes and HBA 1C  We used conventional inverse-variance-weighted (IVW) MR alongside MR sensitivity analyses.

A few studies report that parental longevity is associated with preserved cognition and physical function and lower risk of Alzheimer's disease. This study aims to examine relationships of parental longevity with regional brain structure and to explore sex differences. We identified 12,970 UK Biobank participants with data on parental longevity, regional gray matter volumes, and white matter microstructure.

Study was to identify genetic variants on chromosome X associated with intraocular pressure. Association analyses were performed across chromosome X using 102,407 participants from the UK Biobank. We identified three loci associated with IOP at genomewide significance.

Thrombosis and platelet activation play a central role in stroke pathogenesis. Whether haematological traits contribute equally to all ischaemic stroke subtypes is uncertain. Identification of associations with new traits may offer novel treatment opportunities.

There is growing evidence that the Mediterranean (Medi) diet may lower the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) Whether this association is due to the Medi diet by itself or is mediated by a diet-associated lower rate of overweight is uncertain. Our aim was to disentangle these relationships among UK adults.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) has an apparent sex disparity, with a more rapid progress in men than in women. Whether the well-established sex-specific evolutionary biology trade-off between reproduction and longevity might inform CKD has not previously been considered.

Microstructure of axons affects neural circuit activity through characteristics such as conduction speed. To what extent axonal microstructure in white matter relates to functional connectivity (synchrony) between brain regions is largely unknown. Using MRI data in 11,354 subjects, we constructed multivariate models that predict functional connectivity of pairs of brain regions.

In this paper we review the methodological underpinnings of the general pharmacogenetic approach for uncovering genetically-driven treatment effect heterogeneity. A decision framework is then described to decide when a particular estimation strategy is most appropriate. Triangulation of evidence from different data sources, each with their inherent biases and limitations, is becoming a well established principle.

Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency (AATD) is mainly due to the PI*ZZ genotype in SERPINA1. Since it is associated with a high disease burden and partially prevented by smoking cessation, identification of PI*zz individuals through genotyping could improve health outcomes.

The UK Biobank is an unprecedented resource for human disease research. In March 2019, 49,997 exomes were made publicly available to investigators. Thousands of variant calls are unexpectedly absent from this dataset. 641 genes showing zero variation.

Both bone mineral density (BMD) and lean body mass (LBM) are important physiological measures with strong genetic determination. Aiming to identify pleiotropic genomic loci underlying BMD and LBM, we performed bivariate genome-wide association study meta-analyses. Combining the results from discovery meta-analysis and replication sample, we identified three genomic locus at the genome- wide significance level.

This study aimed to evaluate the association between thyroid dysfunction and breast cancer risk. We included 239,436 females of the UK Biobank cohort. 3,227 (1.3%) and 20,762 (8.7%) women had hyper- and hypothyroidism prior to the baseline. During a median follow-up of 7.1 years, 5,326 (2.2%) women developed breast cancer.

Thyroid dysfunction is associated with higher anemia prevalence, although causality remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the association between thyroid function and anemia. The study included 445 482 European participants from the UK Biobank.

Hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism are observationally associated with sex hormone concentrations and sexual dysfunction, but causality is unclear. We investigated whether TSH, fT4, hypo- and hyper thyroidism are causally associated. Outcomes from UK Biobank and ReproGen were sex hormones (sex hormone binding globulin [SHBG], testosterone, estradiol, free androgen index [FAI]) and sexual function.

Light has powerful effects on mood, sleep, and the circadian system. UK Biobank participants reported spending a median of 2.5 daylight hours (IQR = 1.5-3.5 h) outdoors per day. Each additional hour spent outdoors during the day was associated with lower odds of lifetime major depressive disorder.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) are poised to be translated into clinical practice through prediction of inborn health risks. We investigated the association of the genetic susceptibility to complex traits with human lifespan in collaboration with three worldwide biobanks. A high systolic blood pressure PRS was trans-ethnically associated with a shorter lifespan.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is the single largest contributor to global disability. Up to 20-30% of patients do not respond to at least two antidepressants (treatment-resistant depression, TRD) This study leveraged imputed gene expression in TRD to perform a drug repurposing analysis.

Measuring aberrant gene expression has aided in identifying functional, large-effect rare variants (RVs) We analyzed gene expression, allele-specific expression, and alternative splicing from multitissue RNA-sequencing data. We developed Watershed, a probabilistic model that integrates multiple genomic and transcriptomic signals.

Destabilised transthyretin (TTR) can result in a progressive, fatal disease. A stabilising  TTR  mutation, T119M, is the basis for a therapeutic strategy to reduce destabilised TTR. Recently, T 119M was associated with extended lifespan and lower risk of cerebrovascular disease in a Danish cohort. We aimed to determine whether this finding could be replicated in the UK Biobank.

We aimed to explore the underlying genetic mechanisms of traumatic events during childhood affecting the risks of adult substance use. Using UK Biobank cohort, linear regression model was first applied to assess the relationships between cigarette smoking and alcohol drinking in adults with traumatic events. We found that the frequency of cigarette smoking was significantly associated with felt hated by family member.

We performed a bivariate GWAS meta-analysis of femoral neck BMD (FNK-BMD) and trunk fat mass adjusted by trunk lean mass (TFMadj) in 11,496 subjects from 6 samples. We identified two novel pleiotropic loci 12q15 (lead SNP rs73134637, p = 3.45 × 10-7) and 10p14 that were suggestively associated. Cis-eQTL analysis demonstrated that allele C was positively associated with IFNG expression in whole blood. Mouse model analysis showed that heterozygous PRKCQ deficient mice presented decreased fat mass.

MindCrowd is a cross-sectional web-based assessment of simple visual (sv) reaction time (RT) and paired-associate learning (PAL) Results were combined with 22 survey questions. Analysis of svRT revealed education and stroke as potential modifiers of changes in processing speed and memory from younger to older ages.

Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease with rising incidence in high-income countries. Strongest known associations with genetic variation map to classical HLA class II genes. We hypothesize that genetic variation in EHMT2 could impact autoimmunity in type 1 diabetes development.

Excess risks of type 2 diabetes in UK South Asians (SA) and African Caribbeans (AC) compared with Europeans remain unexplained. We studied risks and determinants in first- and second-generation (born in the UK) migrants, and in those of mixed ethnicity.

In biobank data analysis, most binary phenotypes have unbalanced case-control ratios. This can cause inflation of type I error rates. Recently, a saddle point approximation (SPA) based single-variant test has been developed to provide an accurate and scalable method to test for associations.

UkbREST is a RESTful API for UK Biobank data. It exposes a REST API that makes data highly accessible inside a private and secure network. It is implemented in Python using the Flask-RESTful framework.

Study examined associations between ultra-processed food consumption and risk of obesity among UK adults. Participants aged 40-69 years at recruitment in the UK Biobank (2006-2019) had significantly higher risk of developing overall obesity (BMI &#8805; 30 kg/m2)

Ultra-processed foods account for more than 50% of daily calories consumed in several high-income countries. Sales of ultra- Processed foods are soaring globally, especially in middle- income countries.

Medical images have been acquired for over 40,000 male and female UK Biobank participants, aged 44-82, since 2014. Phenotypes derived from these images can reveal new links between genetics, cardiovascular disease, and metabolic conditions.

More accurate prediction of those at risk of developing severe infections is of high clinical importance. The top 5 contributing factors for severity were age, number of drugs taken, cystatin C (reflecting renal function), waist-to-hip ratio (WHR), and Townsend deprivation index (TDI) For mortality, the top features were. age, testosterone, cnt_tx, waist circumference (WC), and red cell distribution width.

Cognitive impairment is strongly linked with persistent disability in people with mood disorders. The factors that explain cognitive impairment in this population are unclear. The potential mediators were cardiometabolic disease and psychotropic medication.

Study looked at 129,731 individuals in the UK Biobank of European descent. Hearing loss, older age, male gender, high BMI, higher deprivation, higher blood pressure, smoking history, as well as numerous comorbidities were associated with higher odds of current tinnitus.

From 2006 to 2010, 490,966 UK Biobank participants, aged 37 to 73 years, were recruited. Primary outcomes were mortality: all-cause, cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cancer. Secondary outcomes were incident myocardial infarction, stroke, and heart failure and colon, lung, breast, and prostate cancer.

MOSTest identifies 347 genomic loci associated with regional brain morphology, more than any previous study. Our findings implicate more than 5% of all protein-coding genes and provide evidence for gene sets involved in neuron development and differentiation.

A dataset from UK Biobank was used to evaluate the impact of pre-analytical variability on the power of association studies. The results showed that the majority of the analytes investigated in our analysis, were stable over a period of 36&#x2009;h.

Network analysis provides a rich framework to model complex phenomena, such as human brain connectivity. It has proven efficient to understand their natural properties and design predictive models. In this paper, we study the variability within groups of networks, i.e., structure of connection similarities and differences across a set of networks.

Most genome-wide association and fine-mapping studies to date have been conducted in individuals of European descent. Genetic studies of populations of Hispanic/Latino and African ancestry are limited. We demonstrated that using TOPMed sequencing data as the imputation reference panel improves genotype imputation quality in these populations.

Having a larger genetically predicted body size in early life was associated with an increased odds of coronary artery disease and type 2 diabetes. However, little evidence was found of a direct effect (ie, not through adult body size) on breast cancer.

Studies have shown increased gastric cancer risk in users of proton pump inhibitors (PPI) and histamine-2 receptor antagonists. We conducted a case-control study within the Scottish Primary Care Clinical Informatics Unit (PCCIU) and a cohort study in the UK Biobank. We observed little consistent evidence of an increased risk with PPI use.

Gene-environment interactions (GxE) play a central role in the theoretical relationship between genetic factors and complex traits. While genome wide GxE studies of human behaviors remain underutilized, in part due to methodological limitations.

Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is a cause of substantial global morbidity and mortality. Statins are commonly prescribed for lowering circulating cholesterol by inhibiting HMG-CoA reductase (HMGCR) Results from some observational studies suggest that statin use may reduce HNSCC risk.

Testosterone supplementation is commonly used for its effects on sexual function, bone health and body composition. We identified genetic determinants of testosterone levels and related sex hormone traits in 425,097 UK Biobank study participants. We found that genetically higher testosterone is harmful for metabolic diseases in women but beneficial in men.

Policy makers need reliable information of the health burden of different risk factors. To estimate the attributable fraction from observational data, we have to make appropriate adjustment for confounding. By using Mendelian randomization, it has been claimed that low educational qualifications is a causal risk factor for coronary heart disease.

Major depression (MD) is often characterised as a categorical disorder. This study sought to understand if polygenic risk for MD could provide insight into the continuous nature of depression.

Serum C-reactive protein (CRP) has been associated with age-related macular degeneration (AMD) in observational studies. It remains unclear whether the association between circulating CRP levels and AMD is causal. We used two-sample Mendelian randomization to evaluate the potential causal relationship.

Normative modelling is an emerging method for quantifying how individuals deviate from the healthy populational pattern. We assessed normative models based on deep autoencoders using structural neuroimaging data from patients with Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment.

Despite poorer health and healthcare outcomes experienced by lesbian, gay and bisexual adults, data for research to characterize and address these disparities remain limited. We describe sexual history information from 502,543 UK Biobank participants recruited between 2006 and 2010. We compare this with sexual history and sexual identity responses to the third National Survey of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyles collected between 2010 and 2012.

UK Biobank collected accelerometer traces from 103,712 volunteers aged between 40 and 69 years using wrist-worn triaxial accelerometers for 1 week. Data set has been used in the past to verify that individuals with chronic diseases exhibit reduced activity levels compared with healthy populations.

The increasing availability of large biobanks linked to electronic healthcare records enables the potential to identify novel drug-gene interactions in large populations of patients. We identify eight novel associations after Bonferroni correction, three of which are replicated or validated in the UK Biobank or have other supporting results.

Current lipid guidelines suggest measurement of Lp(a) and ApoB for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk assessment. Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) may identify individuals unlikely to have elevated Lp('a') or Apo'B and thus reduce such suggested testing.

Preimplantation genetic testing (PGT) has been successfully applied to reduce the risk of miscarriage, improve IVF success rates, and prevent inheritance of monogenic disease and unbalanced translocations. Study provides the first method capable of simultaneous testing of aneuploidy, structural rearrangements, and monogenic disorders using a single platform.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a global public health crisis that affects one quarter of the world population. Preventing either cardiometabolic or liver-related complications would be the central goal of a NAFLD screening program in the primary care setting.

Humans are a highly social species. Complex interactions for mutual support range from helping neighbors to building social welfare institutions. By translating pattern-learning algorithms to the UK Biobank imaging-genetics cohort, we have delineated manifestations of regular social support in multimodal whole-brain measurements.

Recent work has shown that polygenic scores have limited portability across groups of different genetic ancestries. This restricts the contexts in which they can be used reliably and potentially creating serious inequities in future clinical applications. Using the UK Biobank data, we demonstrate that even within a single ancestry group, prediction accuracy can depend on characteristics.

Existing gene-environment interaction (G × E) tests for rare variants largely focus on detecting gene-based G × E effects in a single study. Meta-analysis methods that synthesize summary statistics of G×E effects from multiple studies are still limited. Based on variance component models, we propose four methods of testing G×e effects for rare variant. Our methods are further validated via testing 12 candidate gene-age interactions in blood pressure traits.

Lung function is highly heritable and differs between the sexes throughout life. Little is known about sex-differential genetic effects on lung function. We tested for interactions between 7,745,864 variants and sex on spirometry-based measures of lung function in UK Biobank.

Exome sequence data was obtained for 49,953 UK Biobank subjects, of whom 82 had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and could be presumed to have severe disease.

The stress hormone cortisol modulates fuel metabolism, cardiovascular homoeostasis, mood, inflammation and cognition. The CORtisol NETwork (CORNET) consortium previously identified a single locus associated with morning plasma cortisol. Identifying additional genetic variants that explain more of the variance in cortisol could provide new insights into cortisol biology.

Brain morphology has been shown to be highly heritable, yet only a small portion of the heritability is explained by the genetic variants discovered so far. Here we extended the Multivariate Omnibus Statistical Test (MOSTest) and applied it to genome-wide association studies. We identified 695 loci for cortical surface area and 539 for cortical thickness, in total 780 unique genetic loci associated with cortical morphology.

Little research has assessed serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) concentration and its predictors in Western-dwelling South Asians in a relatively large sample size. This observational, cross-sectional analysis assessed baseline prevalence of vitamin D deficiency in South Asians aged 40-69 years.

 Visual impairment has emerged as a potential modifiable risk factor for dementia. There is a lack of large studies with objective measures of vision and with more than 10 years of follow-up. We investigated whether visual impairment is associated with an increased risk of incident dementia.

 Observational evidence has implicated vitamin D levels as a risk factor in major depressive disorder (MDD) Confounding or reverse causation may be driving these observed associations, with studies using genetics indicating little evidence of an effect. We explored the associations between vitamin D and two subtypes of MDD.

White matter lesions are a common finding on MRI in older adults. Their presence increases the risk of stroke and dementia. Accurate and computationally efficient modelling methods are necessary to map the association of lesion incidence with risk factors.

The high prevalence of vitamin D deficiency and obesity drives the need for successful strategies that elevate vitamin D levels, prevent adipogenesis, and stimulate lipolysis. This study provides a theoretical model to evaluate how physical activity (PA) and sunlight exposure influence serum vitamin D and regional adiposity.

Normative modelling is becoming more popular in neuroimaging due to its ability to make predictions of deviation from a normal trajectory at the level of individual participants. So far, most normative modelling approaches used Gaussian process regression, and although suitable for smaller datasets, it does not scale well to the large cohorts currently available and being acquired.

Biomedical repositories such as the UK Biobank provide increasing access to prospectively collected cardiac imaging. These data are unlabeled, which creates barriers to their use in supervised machine learning. We develop a weakly supervised deep learning model for classification of aortic valve malformations using up to 4,000 cardiac MRI sequences.

We used a network harmonization approach to map dominant-wrist acceleration to PAEE in 96,476 UK Biobank participants. We also calculated the fraction of PAEE accumulated from moderate-to-vigorous-intensity physical activity (MVPA) Over the median 3.1-year follow-up period, 732 deaths were recorded.

The contribution of measurable immunological and inflammatory parameters to lung cancer development remains unclear, particularly among never smokers. We investigated relationship between total and differential white blood cell (WBC) counts and incident lung cancer risk overall and among subgroups defined by smoking status and sex.

Tobacco smoking is an addictive behavior that supports nicotine dependence and is an independent risk factor for cancer and other illnesses. Its neurogenetic mechanisms are not fully understood but may act through alterations in the cerebral white matter (WM) We hypothesized that the vertical pleiotropic pathways, where genetic variants influence a trait that in turn influences another trait, link genetic factors, integrity of cerebral WM, and nicotine addiction.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality. We performed whole genome sequence (WGS) analysis of lung function and COPD in a multi-ethnic sample of 11,497 participants. We identify at genome-wide significance 10 known GWAS loci and 22 distinct, previously unreported loci.

Exome association studies to date have generally been underpowered to systematically evaluate the phenotypic impact of very rare coding variants. We leveraged extensive haplotype sharing between 49,960 exome-sequenced UK Biobank participants and the remainder of the cohort. Association and fine-mapping analyses of 54 quantitative traits identified 1,189 significant associations.

Whole lean body mass (WLBM) is a heritable trait predicting sarcopenia. We performed a whole-exome sequencing (WES) of WLBM variation in 101 Chinese subjects. Four single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were significant both in the discovery stage and replication stage. Functional annotations highlighted two candidate genes, including FZR1 and SOAT2, that may exert pleiotropic effects.

White matter hyperintensities (WMH) are among the most common radiological abnormalities in the ageing population and an established risk factor for stroke and dementia. We conducted a comprehensive analysis of this burden in the UK Biobank using publicly available whole-exome sequencing data (n up to 17 830) We found damaging missense and loss-of-function variants in HTRA1 to associate with an increased WMH volume.

We used a novel whole-genome approach to estimate the genetic and nongenetic effects on-and hence their predispositions to-cardiovascular risk. We performed analyses on the ARIC (Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities) Study. Lifestyle modulation was evident for many cardiovascular traits such as body mass index and resting heart rate.

Study looked at 686 childhood cancer survivors of European ancestry treated with cranial radiotherapy (CRT) Of those, 116 (17%) had clinically diagnosed stroke. There was a genome-wide significant association between 5p15.33 locus and stroke.

Mortality and HF risk were almost doubled in those with diabetes compared to those without diabetes in the UK Biobank population. Women with diabetes (both types) experience a 22% increased risk of HF compared to men.

Women's exposure to estrogen may influence their heightened risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) relative to men. Little is known about how it affects normal brain aging. Recent findings demonstrate less apparent brain aging in women with a history of multiple childbirths.

The X-chromosome has long been hypothesized to have a disproportionate influence on the brain based on its enrichment for genes that are expressed in the brain. Here, we verify this hypothesis through partitioned heritability analysis of X- Chromosome influences (XIs) on human brain anatomy in 32,256 individuals from the UK Biobank.

Liver fibrosis is associated with worse cognitive performance and corresponding brain imaging changes. We examined the association of liver fibrosis with cognition and brain imaging parameters in the UK Biobank study. Liver fibrosis was associated with lower hippocampal and total brain volumes.

The SIX6 gene codes for a transcription factor believed to be critical to the eye, retina and optic disc development and morphology. CRX regulates photoreceptor specification and expression of over 700 genes in the retina.

We introduce AbdomentNet, a deep neural network for the automated segmentation of abdominal organs on two-point Dixon MRI scans. A pre-processing pipeline enables to process MRI scans from different imaging studies. The mean Dice similarity coefficient is above 0.9 for larger organs liver, spleen, and kidneys.

Type 2 diabetes and lifestyle factors have been associated with dementia risk. The effect of a healthy lifestyle on diabetes-related dementia remains largely unknown. We aimed to investigate whether the increased risk of dementia among individuals with diabetes can be offset by a broad combination of healthy lifestyle factors.

The fatty liver index (FLI) is frequently used as a non-invasive clinical marker for research, prognostic and diagnostic purposes. It is also used to stratify individuals with hepatic steatosis such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and histamine-2 receptor antagonists (H2RAs) were studied in the UK Biobank. Regular PPIs use was associated with a higher risk of ASCVD and every subtype of the disease.

Sex differences in the fitness effects of genetic variants can influence the rate of adaptation and the maintenance of genetic variation. For example, "sexually antagonistic" (SA) variants can both constrain adaptation and increase genetic variability for fitness components such as survival, fertility, and disease susceptibility. detecting variants with sex-differential fitness effects is difficult.

 Complex brain networks play a central role in integrating activity across the human brain. Such networks can be identified in the absence of any external stimulus. We found that the heritability of global network efficiency was largely explained by blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) resting state fluctuation amplitudes (RSFA)

l-carnitine is emerging as an item of interest for cardiovascular disease (CVD) prevention and treatment, but controversy exists. We assessed how genetically different levels of l-c Carnitine are associated with CVD risk and its risk factors. Given higher CVD incidence in men, we also examined sex-specific associations.

Sex is seldom considered as a potential moderator of the impact of bipolar disorder (BD) on cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. We aimed to characterize the sex-specific association of CVD and BD using data from the UK Biobank. We found a two- to three-fold stronger association among women than among men.

Depression has been acknowledged as a risk factor for cardiometabolic diseases. We aimed to investigate how depression affected the development of CM based on the UK Biobank study. Depression was significantly associated with all transitions from baseline to diabetes, stroke, and CHD.

We study variance estimation and associated confidence intervals for parameters characterizing genetic effects from genome-wide association studies. We develop practical and computationally convenient methods for estimating such asymptotic variances. Performance of the proposed methods is evaluated empirically based on Monte-Carlo simulations and real-data application.

Average and slow walking pace was associated with a higher risk of incident T2D in both men and women, independent of major confounding factors. Compared with slow walkers, brisk walkers have the same diabetes incidence rate 18.6 and 16.0 years later.

Exposure polygenic risk scores (ExPRS) offer an alternative to study the influence of exposures on various phenotypes. We established ExPRSs for 27 exposures and demonstrated their applicability in phenome-wide association studies and as predictors for common chronic conditions.

Both walking pace and genetic risk were strongly associated with CAD. The absolute 10-year risk of CAD was highest in slow walkers at high genetic risk (top 20% of PGS)

Depression was associated with a 51% higher risk of dementia, among which the increasing, chronically high, and chronically low courses were associated with increased dementia risk. No association was found in the decreasing course.

Genetically informed drug development and repurposing is an attractive prospect for improving patient outcomes in psychiatry. However, effectiveness of these endeavors is confounded by heterogeneity. We propose an approach that links interventions implicated by disorder-associated genetic risk, at the population level, to a framework that can target these compounds to individuals.

Genotype-to-phenotype prediction is a central problem of human genetics. In recent years, it has become possible to construct complex predictive models for phenotypes. This is thanks to the availability of large genome data sets and efficient machine learning tools.

Evidence for the effect of elevated blood pressure (BP) on the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) has been conflicting. We sought to assess the association between systolic BP and therisk of VTE. Each 20 mmHg increase in BP was associated with a 7% lower VTE risk.

Despite reported psychological hazards of information technology (IT) work, studies of diagnosed mental health conditions in IT workers are lacking. We investigated self-reported mental health outcomes in the UK Biobank cohort. IT workers had lower incident anxiety/depression (HR = 0.84, 95%CI 0.77-0.93) compared to all other employed participants.

Although there are pronounced sex differences for psychiatric disorders, relatively little has been published on the heterogeneity of sex-specific genetic effects for these traits until very recently for adults. Much less is known about children because most psychiatric disorders will not manifest until later in life and existing studies for children are underpowered.

Traditional PRS prediction methods are predominantly for the European population. accuracy of PRS is diminished due to much smaller sample size of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) We introduced a novel method to construct PRS for non-European populations, abbreviated as TL-Multi.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) frequently occurs in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) However, the longitudinal associations of new-onset AF with risks of adverse health outcomes remain unclear. We aimed to determine the associations of AF with subsequent risks of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD), heart failure, chronic kidney disease (CKD), and mortality among patients with T2D.

Of 377,909 UK Biobank participants having European ancestry, 3,210 (0.8%) died due to CV disease during a median follow-up of 8.9 years. CV mortality risk was significantly associated with CAD PRS and T2DM PRS. There was no evidence of significant interaction between PRSs and age, sex, or lifestyle behavior in predicting the risk of CV mortality.

Latent class analysis detected groups of middle-aged individuals clustering by cardiometabolic health. The relationship of age with brain volumes varies by sex, menopausal status, and cardiometric health profile. In those aged >60 years, negative associations of age were greater in the class comprising healthier older women.

We investigated the dynamics of the relationship between SHBG, total testosterone (total-T), and body mass index (BMI) throughout puberty. The directionality of this relationship was explored using polygenic scores of SHBG and total-T. Two-sample Mendelian Randomization (in male adults) showed the effect of BMI on SHBG but no effect of SH BG on BMI. These results shed new light on their possible relationship with obesity.

A total of 440,693 white European (55.9% women), 7305 South Asian (48.6%) and 7628 black African or Caribbean (57.7%) people were included from UK Biobank. Over a median (IQR) of 12.6 (11.8, 13.3) follow-up years, there were 22,711 (5.15%) cardiovascular events in white European, 463 (6.34%) in South Asian and 302 (3.96%) in black African/Caribbean individuals. For South Asian people, the cardiovascular hazard ratio (HR) compared to white European people was 1.28 (99% CI [1.16, 1.43]

 MR-GxE requires an interaction to be explicitly identified, while MR-GENIUS does not. We find both approaches share similar assumptions, though differences between the approaches lend themselves to differing research settings. We explore the effect of body mass index (BMI) upon systolic blood pressure using data from the UK Biobank.

Lung cancer incidence (hazard ratio [HR]: 1.59, 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.44-1.76) increased among participants with  in utero  tobacco exposure. High PRSs with smoking initiation in childhood had HRs of 18.71 for incidence (95% CI, 14.21-24.63,  P  interaction  = 0.004) and 19.74 for mortality.

The combined effects of ambient air pollution, lifestyle, and genetic predisposition on incident Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) have not been well documented. A total of 263,733 participants without T2D at baseline were identified from the UK Biobank. During a median follow-up of 11.94 years, 7827 (2.97 %) incident T1D cases were identified. Lifestyle was the leading risk factor with a weighted PAF of 25.54 %.

Copy number variation (CNV) is known to influence human traits. Progress on copy-number-based genome-wide association studies (GWASs) from next-generation sequencing (NGS) data has been limited. Here we present a novel method for large-scale copy number analysis from NGS data generating robust copy number estimates.

Study included 348,290 participants from UK Biobank who completed eligible food frequency questionnaires. Western Pattern was associated with an increased risk of multimorbidity. More frequent intakes of processed meat and poultry were associated with higher risks.

No previous study has examined social and spatial determinants of biomarkers together. We present a novel extension of quantitative intersectional analyses using cross-classified multilevel models. Our results suggest intersectional inequalities in biomarkers of healthy ageing are mostly established by age 40-49, but different intersections show different relationships with deprivation.

High levels of IMD were significantly associated with higher risks of BD, depression and anxiety. Multiple candidate genetic loci interacting with IMD provided novel insights into the biological mechanism.

SuperSTR is used to process whole-genome and whole-exome sequencing data. It efficiently screening and identifying known and potential disease-associated STRs in the exomes of 49,953 biobank participants.

Coffee was inversely associated with CKD in a dose-dependent manner. The effects of coffee did not differ across different strata of genetic risk for CKD. Testosterone and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) modified the coffee-CKD association.

In a prospective cohort study based on UK Biobank, 501,376 dementia-free participants were recruited in 2006-2010. During a mean follow-up of 10.66 years, 5,185 dementia cases were identified. When analyzed separately, multiple studied items related to physical and mental activity showed significant associations with the risk of dementia. A higher level of adherence to activity patterns related to frequent vigorous and other exercises, housework-related activity, and friend/family visit was associated with a lower risk.

There has been a growing body of evidence associating consumption of ultraprocessed foods (UPF) with adverse health outcomes including depression, cardiovascular disease, and all-cause mortality. Whether UPF are associated with dementia is unknown. Authors investigated the associations between UPF and dementia incidence in the UK Biobank.

Protein intake linked to type 2 diabetes (T2D) remains unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the associations of protein intake with development of T2D. Red meat, processed meat, poultry, and eggs were associated with an increased risk.

Systemic chronic inflammation (SCI) is associated with poor sleep outcomes. The role of SCI in diet health and sleep quality relationship has not been well established.

In high-dimensional regression problems, often a relatively small subset of the features are relevant for predicting the outcome. When multiple correlated outcomes are available (multitask), reduced rank regression is an effective way to borrow strength and capture latent structures that underlie the data.

The burden of kidney function impairment is increasing in modern medicine. The effects from kidney function on diverse biochemical parameters are not yet fully understood. A higher genetically predicted eGFR was significantly associated with higher lymphocyte percentage, HDL cholesterol, and alanine aminotransferase.

Mendelian Randomisation (MR) can be used to estimate the causal effect of an exposure on an outcome in the presence of unobserved confounding. Multivariable MR (MVMR) allows for multiple, potentially highly related, exposures to be included in an MR estimation. MVMR estimates the direct effect of each exposure on the outcome conditional on all the other exposures included in the estimation.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic neurodegenerative disease. It has a strong genetic component and is more prevalent in women. MS is caused by an autoimmunity initiated inflammatory response. The goal of this article was to explore X-linked genetic factors that are associated with MS susceptibility.

Maternal genetic effects can be defined as the effect of a mother's genotype on the phenotype of her offspring. We present a simple extension to the basic adoption design to partition maternal genetic effects into prenatal and postnatal effects. We apply our model to polygenic scores of educational attainment and birth weight associated variants, in up to 5,178 adopted singletons.

The recent novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak is threatening global health. An understanding of the interaction of SARS-CoV-2 with human cells is still lacking. We identified six nonsense and missense variants of hACE2 from 2585 subjects in the UK Biobank covering 500000 individuals.

Estimating effects of parental and sibling genotypes (indirect genetic effects) can provide insight into how the family environment influences phenotypic variation. We used UK Biobank data to estimate polygenic score (PGS) associations for height, BMI and educational attainment in self-reported singletons and non-singletons. We estimate that a 1 SD increase in sibling educational attainment PGS corresponds to a 0.025 year increase in the index individual's school years.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) is often used to estimate an individual's genetic susceptibility to complex traits and disorders. PRSs for these traits are often based on Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) data with both male and female samples included, ignoring sex differences.

Endometriosis is a condition characterized by implants of endometrial tissues into extrauterine sites, mostly within the pelvic peritoneum. The prevalence of the condition is under-diagnosed and is estimated to account for 5-10% of all women of reproductive age. We applied machine learning algorithms to train an endometiosis prediction model. The informative features of the model may improve clinical utility for endometriotic diagnosis.

The integration of PRS and lifestyles can improve the prediction of RA risk. High RA risk can be alleviated by adopting healthy lifestyles. Those with high genetic risks and unfavorable lifestyles had as high as OR of 4.637.

HaploNet is a method for performing dimensionality reduction and clustering of genetic data. It uses neural networks from whole-genome sequencing or dense genotype data. We show that our approach is better at distinguishing closely related populations than standard admixture and principal component analysis software.

Bayesian EstimatioN of CHange (BENCH) is a Bayesian framework to make inference on changes in the parameters of biophysical models. In this paper, we apply the approach in the context of microstructural modelling of diffusion MRI data, where the models are usually over-parameterised and not invertible.

Little is known about the molecular bases of individual differences in EFs. We found 129 independent genome-wide significant lead variants in 112 distinct loci. cEF was associated with fast synaptic transmission processes in gene-based analyses.

Sex differences in the relationship between brain structural complexity and general intelligence (g) in UK and Indian populations are investigated. Brain complexity and volume were both positively corelated with intelligence, with the correlations being significant in women but not always in men. This relationship is seen across populations of differing ages and geographical locations.

Modelling and predicting individual differences in task-fMRI activity can have a wide range of applications from basic to clinical neuroscience. We show that features extracted using Stochastic Probabilistic Functional Modes (sPROFUMO) outperform the previously proposed dual-regression approach.

Outlier DetectIon for Networks (ODIN) was successful in identifying moderate to extreme outliers. Removing such outliers can significantly change inferences in downstream applications. ODIN has been implemented in both Python and R.

Clinical heterogeneity is common in Mendelian disease. Small sample sizes make it difficult to identify specific contributing factors. If a disease represents the severely affected extreme of a spectrum of phenotypic variation, then modifier effects may be apparent.

SCHEMA consortium has identified 10 genes in which protein-truncating variants (PTVs) confer a substantial risk of schizophrenia. Study aimed to determine whether carrying these PTVs was associated with neuropsychiatric impairment in the general population.

Age-related hearing loss is a common, heterogeneous disease with a strong genetic component. More than 100 loci have been reported to be involved in human hearing impairment to date. Most of the genes underlying human adult-onset hearing loss remain unknown.

Prostate cancer (PCa) screening is not routinely conducted in men aged 55 and younger. Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) and patient data applied toward early prediction of PCa may lead to earlier interventions and increased survival.

A total of 69 524 hypertensives without a history of diabetes mellitus, coronary heart disease, or stroke at baseline were enrolled. Five dimensions of healthy sleep at baseline including early chronotype, sleep 7-8 h/d, free of insomnia, no snoring, and no frequent excessive daytime sleepiness were used to generate a healthy sleep score ranging from 0 to 5.

Multistage disease processes are often characterized by a linear relationship. We used a Weibull distribution to model diseases that occur through an ordered sequence of stages. The rate at which disease risk increases with age was used to distinguish between "sporadic" diseases and "late-onset" diseases.

Gene-based association studies have shown that integrating genome-wide association studies (GWAS) with expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) data can boost statistical power. We propose a new gene-based statistical method that leverages gene-expression measurements and new PRSs to identify genes associated with phenotypes of interest.

Male p.C282Y homozygotes have markedly increased hepatic malignancy incidence. No increases in risks were found for other studied cancers. Replication of results in other large community genotyped cohorts needed.

Trans-ancestry association mapping (TRAM) offers an exciting opportunity to fill the gap of disparities in genetic studies between non-Europeans and Europeans. We showed that LOG-TRAM can greatly improve the statistical power of identifying risk variants in under-represented populations.

Higher circulating polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), especially omega-3 fatty acids, have been linked to a better prognosis in patients of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) However, the effects and causality of pre-infection PUFA levels remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the observational and causal associations of circulating PUFAs with CO VID-19 susceptibility and severity.

Hippocampal formation plays a major role in complex human functions across the lifespan. Much of the genetic architecture of the hippocampal formation is currently unexplored. We reveal 177 unique genetic loci with distributed associations across the hippocampus. We identify genetic overlap with eight brain disorders.

High baseline diastolic BP was associated with a slightly smaller relative increase in reaction time and a slightly greater reduction in depression scores. White matter microstructural changes were consistent with those seen in the aging process. These results are congruent with the view that a higher BP in the aged brain has a complex role.

The UK Biobank (UKBB) is a population-scale dataset of genotype and phenotype data collected from the United Kingdom. The exact content of these non-UK ancestries is largely uncharacterized. Study could highlight valuable intracontinental ancestry references.

Physical activity data from 222,031 female participants with an intact uterus in the UK Biobank study were analyzed. Each 1 MET-h/week increase in total physical activity was associated with a 0.2% [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.1-0.4; P = 0.020] reduction in endometrial cancer risk.

Study included participants from the UK Biobank Infectious Disease pilot study with valid serum antibody (IgG) measurements taken at cohort entry (2006-2010) for herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV1), varicella zoster virus (VZV), and cytomegalovirus (CMV) Linked hospital and mortality records up to December 30 2019 provided information on rates of (1) incident first stroke or MI and (2) all-cause mortality. Human herpesvirus titers were not associated with outcomes.

The prevalence of cardiometabolic multimorbidity (CMM), which significantly increases the risk of mortality, is increasing globally. The role of healthy lifestyle in the secondary prevention of CMM is unclear. CMM was defined as coexistence of at least two of hypertension (HTN), diabetes mellitus (DM), coronary heart disease (CHD), and stroke (ST)

Within-family genetic variation is random, enabling unbiased estimation of direct genetic effects when parents are genotyped. However, parental genotypes are often missing. We introduce a method that imputes missing parental genotype and estimates direct genetic effect. Our method, implemented in the software package snipar, gives more precise estimates of direct Genetic effects than existing approaches.

There is substantial literature on how loneliness is associated with poor health. But little detailed research on the extent of its economic gradients. We provide this evidence using a sample of around 400,000 respondents aged 40-70 years from the UK Biobank.

The relationship between obesity and neurocognitive consequences is complex. Here we investigated associations between body mass index (BMI) and subsequent changes in brain structures, cognitive changes, and the onset of dementia. After correcting for confounding factors, higher BMI was associated with greater retention in visuospatial memory performance.

 sumSTAAR is a framework for gene-based association analysis using summary statistics obtained from genome-wide association studies. It is an extended and modified version of STAAR framework proposed by Li and colleagues in 2020. The methods used in the framework were adapted to analyse genes with large number of SNPs.

Varicose veins affect one-third of Western society. Current management consists of either compression stockings, or surgical ablation for more advanced disease. Most patients report a positive family history, and heritability is 17%.

Older, overweight men, and those with type 2 diabetes, have lower testosterone concentrations and poorer COVID-19-related outcomes. Younger age, higher BMI, non-White ethnicity, lower educational attainment, and socioeconomic deprivation were associated with incidence of SARS-CoV-2 infections.

Study included 242,754 participants with complete shift work information in the UK Biobank. The results showed a significant association of permanent night shift work with incident HF among females. The association between the risk of HF and shift work was strengthened by high genetic risk.

Anxiety disorders are leading contributors to the global disease burden. UK Biobank study recruited >500 000 adults, aged 37-73, between 2006 and 2010. Individuals with anxiety disorders had a lower hand-grip strength and lower blood pressure.

Accurate 3D modelling of cardiac chambers is essential for clinical assessment of cardiac volume and function, including structural, and motion analysis. To study the correlation between cardiac morphology and other patient information within a large population, it is necessary to automatically generate cardiac mesh models of each subject within the population. In this study, we introduce MCSI-Net (Multi-Cue Shape Inference Network), where we embed a statistical shape model inside a convolutional neural network.

Sleep health is considered a key determinant of human physiological and psychological well-being. Previous studies have found that poor sleep is associated with various psychiatric disorders, in particular, with anxiety and depression. Recent findings suggest essential dimensions of SH are associated with altered amygdala reactivity.

Myelin, iron, and calcium are major constituents of brain tissue with magnetic properties that can be detected non-invasively using MRI. Using quantitative susceptibility mapping, we estimated the magnetic susceptibility of brain structures in 35,273 participants.

The role of copy number variants (CNVs) in susceptibility to asthma is not well understood. The recent availability of whole-exome sequencing (WES) in large biobank studies provides an unprecedented opportunity to study the role of CNVs in asthma.

This is the first study to utilize PRS as a phenotype-agnostic group classification in AD genetic studies. We identify potential new loci for AD and detail phenotypic analysis of these PRS extremes. We also show highly significant genetic correlations with multiple health-related outcomes that provide insights into prodromal symptoms and comorbidities.

The spleen plays a key role in iron homeostasis. It is the largest filter of the blood and performs iron reuptake from old or damaged erythrocytes. Despite this role, spleen iron concentration has not been measured in a large, population-based cohort.

We performed the HyPrColoc colocalization analysis to detect possible shared causal genes between dementia or Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 5 selected traits: stroke, diabetes, atherosclerosis, cholesterol level, and alcohol consumption. Rs150562240 in the LPIN3 gene was identified as a candidate shared causal variant across dementia, AD and Atherosclerosis.

We present a graph embedded topic model (GETM) We integrate existing biomedical knowledge graph information in the form of pre-trained graph embedding. GETM-inferred phenotypes not only accurately predict the status of chronic musculoskeletal (CMK) pain but also reveal known pain-related topics.

Transition from acute to chronic pain is critically important but not well understood. We found thousands of dynamic transcriptional changes over 3 months in LBP participants with resolved pain but none in those with persistent pain. Transient neutrophil-driven up-regulation of inflammatory responses was protective against the transition to chronicPain.

For many complex phenotypes, the assumptions of the linear regression models are not always met. We compared the prediction accuracy of the neural network models to that of classical approaches based on linear regression. The models performed similarly unless the observed distribution of the phenotype was skewed, in which case the neural networks had smaller mean squared error.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a complex chronic disease characterized by considerable phenotypic heterogeneity. We applied a reverse graph embedding method to routinely collected data from 23,137 Scottish patients with newly diagnosed diabetes to visualize this heterogeneity.

The association of cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) with dementia differs by sex. The role of socioeconomic, lifestyle, genetic, and medical factors in their association is unknown. We used data from the UK Biobank, a population-based cohort study.

The UK Biobank is a large middle-aged cohort recruited in 2006-2010. We used data from its participants to analyze mortality, survival, and causes of death associated with mental disorders. We found significantly increased mortality risk associated with all mental disorders identified by symptom-based outcomes, except for lifetime generalized anxiety disorder.

Evidence about the risk of breast cancer according to women's bone mineral density (BMD) is scarce, and little is known about their causal associations. Women participating in the UK Biobank cohort were used to investigate the association between BMD and breast cancer using Cox regression models.

Health disparity across layers of society involves reasons beyond the healthcare system. Socioeconomic status (SES) shapes people's daily interaction with their social environment. Using generative probabilistic modeling, we investigate health satisfaction and complementary indicators of socioeconomic lifestyle in the human social brain.

 Epidemiologic studies have highlighted smoking as an important driver of somatic mutations across multiple tissues. Establishing the causal role of smoking in clonal hematopoiesis has been limited by observational study designs, which may suffer from confounding and reverse-causality.

Pathological brain appearances may be so heterogeneous as to be intelligible only as anomalies. Detecting such anomalies requires models of the normal brain that combine compactness and expressivity. We combine the latent representation of vector quantised variational autoencoders with an ensemble of autoregressive transformers to enable unsupervised anomaly detection and segmentation.

The molecular determinants of tissue composition of the human brain remain largely unknown. Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) on this topic have had limited success due to methodological constraints. Key molecular pathways involved in axonal growth, astrocyte-mediated neuroinflammation and synaptogenesis during development are found to significantly impact the measured variations in tissue-specific imaging features.

Evidence for the association between vitamin D and risk of recurrent stroke remains sparse and limited. We aimed to assess the relationship between serum circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) level and risk. Data from the nationwide prospective United Kingdom Biobank were used for analyses.

Study aimed to evaluate whether polygenic risk scores could be helpful in addition to family history for triaging individuals. Monogenic causes of complex diseases were more prevalent among individuals with a parental disease history than in the rest of the population.

UK Biobank recruited 502,624 participants aged 37 to 73 years between 2006 and 2010. Of 441,403 participants with complete data, 3180 were hospitalised for COVID-19 and 1040 (0.2%) died from the disease. Chronic pain was associated with hospital admission for CO VID-19 even after adjustment for all covariates.

With the advent of high throughput genetic data, there have been attempts to estimate heritability from genome-wide SNP data. Fitting such an LMM in a large scale cohort study is tremendously challenging due to its high dimensional linear algebraic operations. PredLMM has substantially better computational complexity than most of the existing LMM based methods and thus, provides a fast alternative for estimating heritability.

Walking pace is a strong predictor of health status, but the nature of its association with leucocyte telomere length (LTL) is unclear. LTL is causally associated with several chronic diseases and has been proposed as a marker of biological age.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have demonstrated that most common diseases have a strong genetic component from many genetic variants each with a small effect size. Here, we propose to improve PGS-based risk estimation by incorporating genetic ancestry derived from genome-wide genotyping data.

Vitamin D has been associated with reduced risk of developing invasive breast cancer. However, their association with risk of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) of the breast has received little attention.

Antidepressant-related adverse drug reactions depend partly on genetic variation. We hypothesized that candidate genetic polymorphisms are associated with fall risk in older antidepressant users. The association between antidepressant use and falls was cross-sectionally investigated in a cohort of Dutch older adults.

High stress in Childhood and Adulthood was associated with decreases in executive function and working memory in both males and females. Stress across the lifespan was also positively associated with the number of diagnosed mental health problems, with a stronger effect in females than in males.

Heritability is a fundamental concept in genetic studies, measuring the genetic contribution to complex traits. Linkage disequilibrium (LD) score regression (LDSC) estimates both heritability and confounding biases, such as cryptic relatedness and population stratification. We propose LD eigenvalue regression (LDER), an extension of LDSC, by making full use of the LD information.

The study is based on the data from the UK Biobank, which recruited 500,000 participants. Genetic risk was categorized into low, intermediate, and high groups. The lifestyle score comprised the body mass index, smoking, physical activity, and diet.

Two recently reported neuroanatomical signatures of schizophrenia-signature 1, with widespread reduction of gray matter volume, and signature 2, with increased striatal volume-were replicated. Authors compared cognition, psychopathology, and polygenic risk between signatures. Signature 1 was associated with worse cognitive performance than signature 2.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory disease that affects the joints. Diet can represent both a risk factor and a protective factor. Oily fish, alcohol, coffee and breakfast cereals have protective roles in RA.

PolyPred combines two predictors: a new predictor that leverages functionally informed fine-mapping to estimate causal effects (instead of tagging effects) and BOLT-LMM, a published predictor. We applied PolyPred to 49 diseases/traits in four UK Biobank populations and observed relative improvements ranging from +7% in south Asians to +32% in Africans. We propose PolyPred+ which further incorporates the non-European training data.

The pathogenesis of COVID-19 is unknown, and relevant mortality predictors are lacking. De-identified data from 113,882 were collected from the UK Biobank. Data from 14,876 patients were input into the machine learning model for risk-level mortality prediction. Age, lifestyle, illness, income, and family disease history were identified as important predictors of CO VID-19 mortality.

A lack of internationally agreed standards for combining available data sources at scale risks inconsistent disease phenotyping limiting research reproducibility. We developed a rules-based algorithm to identify coronary artery disease (CAD) sub-phenotypes using electronic health records (EHR) and questionnaire data.

Heritability is the proportion of phenotypic variance explained by genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in unrelated individuals. We develop a fast approach, minimum norm quadratic unbiased estimator (MINQUE) with batch training, to estimate variance components from LMM (LMM.MNQ.BCH)

Study looked at 273,240 women and 228,957 men from the UK Biobank. Over a median of 11.8 years follow-up, 1,866 dementia cases were recorded in women and 2,202 in men. U-shaped associations between the number of children and the risk of dementia were similar for both sexes.

Study included 165,493 participants who are free of hypertension at baseline from the UK Biobank. Sleep behaviors, including chronotype, sleep duration, insomnia, snoring, and daytime sleepiness were used to construct a healthy sleep score. We also derived a healthy lifestyle score based on smoking status, diet quality, physical activity, and body mass index.

Since 2005, genome-wide association (GWA) datasets have been largely biased toward sampling European ancestry individuals. Recent studies have shown that GWA results estimated from self-identified European individuals are not transferable to non-European individuals. We demonstrate that enrichment analyses that aggregate SNP-level association statistics at multiple genomic scales can generate biologically interpretable hypotheses.

Many studies on prostate cancer (PCa) germline variants have been published in the last 15 years. SNP-based GRS and RPMs in four genes were significantly and consistently associated with PCa risk in large well-designed studies. Prospective studies evaluating the performance of all three inherited measures in predicting PCa detection rate from contemporary multiparametric MRI are lacking.

Study included individuals free of stroke at baseline from the UK Biobank. Night-shift work was assessed by the self-reported questions. Incident stroke was ascertained through hospital records and death registries. Night shift work increased the risk of incident stroke.

Previous studies have found that the susceptibility of coronavirus disease 2019 and the risk of severe COVID-19 are not increased in patients with celiac disease (CeD) This study aimed to further clarify the underlying relationship by both observational and Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis.

Several diseases are linked to increased risk of Coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19) Our aim was to investigate whether depressive and anxiety symptoms predict subsequent risk. Depressive symptoms but not anxiety predicted (i) being tested for SARS-CoV-2.

Previous observational studies examining the risk of cancer among patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) are conflicting. We explore the causal relationship between estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and albuminuria, two principal measurements of CKD, and 19 site-specific cancers.

The association between hyperuricemia/gout with cardiovascular diseases (CVD) has not been investigated. We conducted a cohort analysis including 431,967 participants. During mean 10.20 years of follow-up, hyperurICemia patients were associated with increased CVD. The risk elevation was even higher for gout patients (HR = 1.54)

Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the principal cause of blindness in developed countries. AMD severity is quantified by Color Fundus Photographs (CFP) of the retina. Many machine-learning-based methods are proposed for grading AMD severity. Few models were developed to predict the longitudinal progression status.

A quantitative classification of sleep phenotypes would lead to the advancement of biomedical mechanisms underlying human sleep diversity. This kind of quantitative pipeline of sleep analysis is expected to promote data-based diagnosis of sleep disorders.

A total of 120,343 participants from the U.K. Biobank study with at least two 24 h dietary assessments were studied. Two DPs were identified that jointly explained a total of 63% variation in four nutrients. DP1 was characterized by high intakes of chocolate and confectionery, butter, low-fiber bread, and sugars and preserves.

Inferring the structure of human populations from genetic variation data is a key task in population and medical genomic studies. Current methods are impractical to run on biobank-scale genomic datasets containing millions of individuals. SCOPE infers population structure in about a day on a dataset containing one million individuals and variants.

 Frailty is common in early and established RA and associated with hospitalisation and mortality. Frailty in RA is dynamic and, for some, may be ameliorated through controlling disease activity in early disease.

A lack of physical activity (PA) is one of the most pressing health issues today. Our individual propensity for PA is influenced by genetic factors. Stated liking of different PA types may help capture additional and informative dimensions of PA behavior genetics.

Over 4.2 million person-years, 4270 dementia cases occurred in 351,436 UK Biobank participants. Wine intake showed a significant U-shaped association with the lowest risk for incident dementia. In contrast, non-wine is positively related to dementia risk in a linear fashion. No clear association is found for coffee.

Between 2006 and 2010, a total of 341,331 participants (age 37-73 years) in the UK Biobank were examined and thereafter followed up to 2020. The CVH raised by the AHA included 4 behavioral (smoking, diet, physical activity, body mass index) and 3 biological (fasting glucose, blood cholesterol, blood pressure) metrics.

The ability to accurately predict an individual's risk for cancer is critical to the implementation of precision prevention measures. Current cancer risk predictions are frequently made with simple models that use a few proven risk factors, such as the Gail model for breast cancer.

A high healthy lifestyle index (HLI) is a composite score based on good diet quality, low alcohol consumption, no smoking, moderate to high physical activity, and waist circumference. In postmenopausal women, compared with a low HLI, higher scores were associated with a reduced risk of breast cancer.

Use of the dietary supplement glucosamine has been associated with reduced risk of colorectal cancer. However, it remains unclear if the association varies by screening status, time, and other factors. We evaluated these questions in UK Biobank.

Sleep behaviors were believed to be associated with mental disorders (MD) But the underlying mechanism of such association relationship remains unclear. A total of 402,290 participants from UK Biobank who don't have MD at baseline were included.

Study included 152,611 participants free of diabetes and cardiovascular disease in the UK Biobank. Per-SD increase in ASI was associated with a 3% higher T2D risk (95% CI 2-4%). The hazard ratio (HR) of T2d was 1.58 (1.39-1.80) in the highest quintile group.

Biobanks linked to massive, longitudinal electronic health record (EHR) data make numerous new genetic research questions feasible. High blood pressure measurements over visits strongly predict stroke onset, and consistently high fasting glucose and Hb1Ac levels define diabetes.

Sex-specific differences have been noted among people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Whether these differences are attributable to genetic variation is poorly understood. The availability of large biobanks with deeply phenotyped subjects such as the UK Biobank enables the investigation of sex-specific genetic associations.

A polygenic risk score estimates the genetic risk of an individual for some disease or trait. It is calculated by aggregating the effect of many common variants associated with the condition. With the increasing availability of genetic data in large cohort studies such as the UK Biobank, inclusion of this genetic risk is becoming more widespread.

A selection of state-of-the-art approaches were assessed. Different methods were also applied to a section of the UK biobank cohort for Atrial Fibrillation. PLINK's implementation of BOOST recovered the highest number of correct interactions.

There is a paucity of epidemiological evidence on alcohol and the risk of bradyarrhythmias. We studied 407 948 middle-aged individuals (52.4% female) over a median follow-up time of 11.5 years. Increasing total alcohol consumption was not associated with an increased risk. Beer and cider intake were associated with increased brady arrhythmia risk up to 12 drinks/week.

Cardiometabolic diseases are the leading cause of death worldwide. Despite a known genetic component, our understanding of these diseases remains incomplete. We analyzed data from 200,337 UK Biobank participants with whole-exome sequencing. There was a striking risk associated with mutations in known Mendelian disease genes.

Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the primary cause of all death globally. Timely and accurate identification of people at risk of developing an atherosclerotic CVD and its sequelae is a central pillar of preventive cardiology. One widely used approach is risk prediction models.

Drug development and biological discovery require effective strategies to map existing genetic associations to causal genes. We selected 12 common diseases and quantitative traits for which highly powered genome-wide association studies (GWAS) were available. We found that positive control genes were highly enriched in proximity to GWAS-associated single-nucleotide variants (SNVs)

Physical activity (PA) is recognized as one of the key lifestyle behaviors that reduces risk of developing dementia late in life. However, PA also leads to increased respiration, and in areas with high levels of air pollution, PA may increase exposure to pollutants linked with higher risk of dementia. Here, we investigate whether air pollution attenuates the association between PA and dementia risk.

The fibrous annulus of the mitral valve plays an important role in valvular function and cardiac physiology. Normal variation in the size of cardiovascular anatomy may share a genetic link with common and rare disease. We derived automated estimates of mitral valves annular diameter in the 4-chamber view from 32,220 MRI images.

Diabetes-related complications reflect longstanding damage to small and large vessels throughout the body. Early heritability studies found strong familial clustering of both macrovascular and microvascular complications. More severe diabetes retinopathy possessed higher genetic contributions.

It is unclear how different diets may affect human brain development. We investigated diet effects in the UK Biobank data from 18,879 healthy adults. We found anticorrelated brain-wide gray matter volume (GMV)-association patterns between coffee and cereal intake.

Current models implicate adaptive neuroplastic changes in the visual system and their pro-cognitive effects as a schizophrenia resilience mechanism. We investigated whether common genetic resilience variants might affect brain structure in similar neural circuits.

The calcium ion channel ORAI1 has emerged as a promising therapeutic target for the Coronavirus Disease 19 (COVID-19)-associated pneumonia. A pharmacological inhibitor of ORAi1 has now reached clinical trials for severe COVID- 19 pneumonia. Whether ORA I1 itself is associated with an increased risk for severe CoV-19 presentation is still unknown.

Among 449,595 participants, 22,338 (5.0%) were diagnosed with IBS. During a median of 12.2-year follow-up, 2,937 cases of incident cancer were identified in patients with Ibs. Compared with non-IBS, the adjusted hazard ratio for overall cancer and cancer-specific mortality was 0.97 (95% confidence interval: 0.93-1.00, P = 0.062)

Heritability of a trait is measured as the proportion of total variance explained by the additive effects of genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms. Heritability is usually estimated by the restricted maximum likelihood or method of moments approaches such as Haseman-Elston regression. Our proposed method is computationally scalable on biobank datasets and gives an asymptotically unbiased estimate of heritability in presence of discrete substructures.

Large-scale prospective cohort study included 370,671 participants without CKD at baseline. Five sleep behaviors were made up of sleep duration, insomnia, snoring, chronotype, and daytime sleepiness. 17.1% of CKD in this cohort could be attributed to total poor sleep pattern.

Longer sleep was positively associated with lung cancer risk compared with normal sleep duration. Frequent insomnia symptoms increased the risk of lung cancer compared with never/rarely experiencing symptoms. In analysis excluding participants reporting shift work at baseline, evening chronotypes were at a greater risk.

UK Biobank (UKB) is widely employed to investigate mental health disorders and related exposures. We present the first validation study using secondary care mental health data with linkage to UKB from Oxford - Clinical Record Interactive Search (CRIS) We calculated the positive predictive value (PPV, proportion of true positives cases detected) for mental health diagnosis and relevant medication.

Many neuroimaging studies have demonstrated the potential of functional network connectivity patterns estimated from resting functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to discriminate groups and predict information about individual subjects. In this study, we investigate the use of pairwise-relationships between resting-state independent spatial maps to characterize individuals.

Melatonin receptor 1B gene (MTNR1B) rs10830963 influences the dynamics of melatonin secretion. Night shift work, which disrupts our internal circadian rhythms, also dysregulates the production ofmelatonin. A significant interaction was found between night shift work and MTNR1b rs108 30963 on the incidence of prostate cancer.

Pancreatitis is a complex syndrome that results from many etiologies. Large well-characterized cohorts are needed to further understand disease risk and prognosis. A pancreatitis cohort of more than 4,200 patients and 24,000 controls were identified. Gallstones and smoking were confirmed as key risk factors for AP and CP.

Higher body mass index (BMI) and metabolic consequences of excess weight are associated with increased risk of severe COVID-19, though their mediating pathway is unclear. We examined associations of total adiposity, body composition and fat distribution with incidence and severity of the disease.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) are valuable to translate the results of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) into clinical practice. To date, most GWAS have been based on individuals of European-ancestry leading to poor performance in populations of non-European ancestry. We introduce the polygenic transcriptome risk score (PTRS), which is based on predicted transcript levels (rather than SNPs) and explore the portability of PTRS across populations.

The algorithm was trained on retinal images from 50,077 UK Biobank participants and tested on 12,185 participants. The addition of the algorithm to the TRFs model improved risk stratification with an overall NRI of 50.8%. Our results demonstrate that this deep learning algorithm can be a useful tool for stratifying individuals at high risk of type 2 diabetes in the general population.

DeepNull is a method that identifies and adjusts for non-linear and interactive covariate effects using a deep neural network. When applied to 10 phenotypes from the UK Biobank, DeepNull discovered more hits (+6%) and loci (+7%), on average, than conventional association analyses.

P-smoother runs a bidirectional PBWT-based panel scanning that flips mismatching alleles based on the overall haplotype matching context. In a simulated panel with 4000 haplotypes and a 0.2% error rate, we show it can reliably correct 85% of errors. We also showed that PS-cluster is adequately efficient for UK Biobank data.

There is growing interest in the clinical application of polygenic scores as their predictive utility increases for a range of health-related phenotypes. However, providing polygenic score predictions on the absolute scale is an important step for their safe interpretation. We have developed a method to convertpolygenic scores to theabsolute scale for binary and normally distributed phenotypes using summary statistics.

Mood disorders are characterised by pronounced symptom heterogeneity. This presents a substantial challenge both to clinical practice and research. Identification of subgroups of individuals with homogeneous symptom profiles could provide insights in to the transdiagnostic relevance of individual symptoms.

The polygenic risk score (PRS) can help to identify individuals' genetic susceptibility for various diseases. We developed novel network-based comorbidity risk scores to quantify associations among multiple phenotypes from phenome-wide association studies (PheWAS)

Iron homeostasis is associated with several neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD) and may be partially modulated by genetic risk factors. We found that ApoE4 carriers had higher hippocampal. and amygdalar magnetic susceptibility, particularly individuals aged 65 years or older, while those carrying Apo.E2 (which protects against AD) had higher QSM only in the hippocampus.

Analysis included 93,389 adults aged 60-75 years from the UK Biobank. Diet was assessed using a web-based 24-h recall questionnaire between 2009-2012. Dementia was ascertained using hospital inpatient, death records, and self-reported data.

Big Data neuroimaging collaborations including Enhancing Neuro Imaging Genetics through Meta-Analysis (ENIGMA) integrated worldwide data to identify regional brain deficits in major depressive disorder (MDD) We evaluated the sensitivity of translating ENIGMA-defined MDD deficit patterns to the individual level. We compared EDP to the Quantile Regression Index (QRI; a linear alternative to the brain age metric)

A healthy sleep pattern is characterized by sleep of 7 to 8 h/d, no insomnia, no frequent snoring, and no daytime sleepiness. We included 392,218 European adults, aged 38 to 73 years, who were free of CKD at recruitment between March 13, 2006, and October 1, 2010.

There is little evidence on how factors relatively affect physical activity (PA) Using a socioecological approach, it was discovered that obesity and disease-related factors were the most important determinants. PCs related to body composition and chronic diseases were suggested as key determinants of objectively measured MVPA.

Prior studies have established that higher educational attainment is associated with a longer telomere length (TL), a marker of cellular aging. However, it is unclear whether extant associations are causal, since they are likely confounded by unobserved genetic, early-life and family background factors. We leverage sibling differences in TL, education and measured genetics to estimate associations between educational attainment and TL in midlife.

Outliers have usually been detected in a supervised or semi-supervised manner for labeled neuroimaging cohorts. There has been much less work using unsupervised outlier detection on large unlabeled cohorts like the UK Biobank brain imaging dataset. Given its large sample size, rare imaging phenotypes within this unique cohort are of interest.

One of the most commonly studied loci is the serotonin transporter (SLC6A4) promoter polymorphism. The genetic association signals between 5-HTTLPR and psychiatric phenotypes have been inconsistent across many studies. We developed a GWAS summary-statistics-based approach for testing the variable number of tandem repeat (VNTR) associations with various phenotypes.

 Transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS) incorporated expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) cohorts as a reference panel. We conducted tissue-specific TWAS on cigarettes per day (CPD) over thirteen brain tissues. We identified three major clusters of genes with different meta-patterns across tissues consistent in both cohorts. Downstream enrichment analyses on each gene cluster identified unique biological pathways associated with CPD.

Previous studies have demonstrated a U-shaped relationship between alcohol and sudden cardiac death (SCD) There is a paucity of evidence on the role of alcohol specifically on incident ventricular arrhythmias (VAs) The purpose of this study was to characterize associations of total and beverage-specific alcohol consumption with incident VA and SCD using data from the UK Biobank.

UK Biobank (UKB) is a large prospective cohort capturing numerous health outcomes, but limited occupational information. Job titles and UK Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) codes were collected. UK SOC codes were mapped to US SOC codes allowing linkage to O*NET variables.

Recent studies have found that women with obstetric disorders are at increased risk for a variety of long-term complications. The underlying pathophysiology of these connections remains undetermined.

Dietary and nutrition and dietary patterns are associated with the development of dementia. Participants of a longitudinal cohort study that included European adults who were middle to old aged at baseline and who had not been diagnosed with dementia at baseline (2006-2010)

Associations between colorectal cancer (CRC) and other health outcomes have been reported. We set out to determine whether genetic predisposition to CRC is also associated with the risk of other phenotypes. Under the phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) and tree-structured phenotypic model (TreeWAS), we studied 334,385 unrelated White British individuals.

Left atrial (LA) structure and function with prevalent and incident cardiovascular disease (CVD), independent of left ventricular (LV) metrics, in 25 896 UK Biobank participants. Lower LAEF was associated with diabetes, smoking, and all the prevalent and incidents CVDs. Diabetes, smoking and high cholesterol were associated with smaller LAV. Hypertension, IHD, AF (incident and prevalent), incident stroke, and CVD mortality were associated.

People from Black African, Black Caribbean and Indian groups were less likely to report hearing difficulty than their White British or Irish counterparts. For equivalent levels of hearing loss, the use of hearing aids is lower among ethnic minority groups. Inequalities are partly due to lower levels of self-reported hearing difficulty among minorities.

A significant proportion of patients with elevated LDL do not carry known genetic mutations associated with hypercholesterolemia, such as defects in the LDL receptor. To identify new genes involved in the cellular uptake of LDL, we developed a novel whole-genome clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat-Cas9 KO screen in HepG2 cells. We identified transgelin ( TAGLN), an actin-binding protein, as a potentially new gene involved in LDL endocytosis.

Obesity and kidney diseases are common complex disorders with an increasing clinical and economic impact on healthcare around the globe. Our objective was to examine if modifiable anthropometric obesity indices show putatively causal association with kidney health and disease.

Wellbeing has a fundamental role in determining life expectancy and major depressive disorder (MDD) is one of the main modulating factors of wellbeing. This study evaluated the modulators of wellbeing in individuals with lifetime recurrent MDD, single-episode MDD and no MDD in the UK Biobank.

Researchers have developed a clustering technique for analysing activity data. The data was collected as part of the UK Biobank study. The findings sit alongside existing summary measures of physical activity.

Cataract is the most common cause of blindess globally. It is biologically plausible that cataract risk is increased by pollution exposure. This was a prospective, observational study involving 433,727 UK Biobank participants. Higher exposure to PM2.5 was associated with a 5% increased risk of incident cataracts surgery.

Evidence from several groups indicates that Klotho (KL), a gene encoding a single-pass transmembrane protein that acts as an FGF23 co-receptor, may be associated with longevity and healthy aging. We aimed to explore this area further by comparing the genotype counts in 642 long-lived individuals from the Newcastle 85+ Study with 18 295 middle-aged Newcastle-based controls.

Study included 13,366 participants with baseline type 2 diabetes from the UK Biobank. Lifestyle information was collected through a baseline questionnaire. During a median follow-up of 11.7 years, 1,561 deaths were documented.

Study included 449,971 (38-73 years old) participants, including 199,617 (44.36%) men in the UK Biobank Study. Both frailty and pre-frailty status significantly were associated with an increase of the CVD incidence and all-cause mortality across a wider age range.

TyG index is a substitute measure for insulin resistance (IR) Relationship between IR and lung cancer has been examined in previous studies. Findings have been controversial and previous studies had small sample sizes.

The functional significance and mechanisms determining the development and individual variability of structural brain asymmetry remain unclear. Here, we systematically analyzed all relevant components of the most prominent structural asymmetry, brain torque. Age-, sex-, and handedness-related effects on BT were assessed.

Human T-cell lymphotropic virus 1 (HTLV-1) has been associated with cognitive function and neuropsychiatric outcomes in humans. In this study, we sought to further generalize previously reported associations of cognitive function with the virus. The results of adjusted linear regression models showed no associations with reasoning, pairs-matching, or reaction-time cognitive tasks or with depression.

Brain structure, psychosocial, and physical factors underpin back pain conditions. Less is known about how these factors differ based on pain duration and location. We found differences in structural brain measures in the chronic pain groups alone.

The number of variants that have a non-zero effect on a trait is a fundamental parameter in the study of the genetic architecture of a complex trait. Although many previous studies have investigated polygenicity at a genome-wide scale, a detailed understanding of how it varies across genomic regions is currently lacking. In this work, we propose an accurate and scalable statistical framework to estimate regionalpolygenicity for acomplex trait.

Behavioral disinhibition is observed to be an important characteristic of many neurodevelopmental and psychiatric disorders. Recent studies have linked dietary quality to levels of behavioral inhibition. It is currently unclear whether brain factors might mediate this. The current study investigates whether cortical and subcortical brain volumes mediate part of the association.

Psychosis is associated with many forms of adversity, deprivation and living in urban areas. We sought to understand mechanisms by which childhood, recent/contemporary and place-based adversities might cluster and interact.

Figure 1 shows the size of the human body. Figure 1: The human body is made up of more than 100 million cells. Figure 2: The number of human cells is estimated to be around 100 million.

 sequencing of the human genome has allowed the study of the genetic architecture of common diseases. Common diseases are polygenic, with many loci contributing to phenotype. The cumulative burden of risk alleles determines individual risk in conjunction with environmental factors.

Study analyzed baseline UK Biobank data on plasma glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) to compare the prevalence of pre-diabetes and undiagnosed diabetes mellitus in white, South Asian, black, and Chinese participants. The overall and ethnic-specific results were standardized to the UK general population.

Diet has long been the focus of attention as a leading risk factor for non-communicable diseases. A better understanding of it is crucial to establish priorities for dietary guidelines. The aim of the current study is to conduct the largest investigation of diet, sleep, and mental health to date.

Cumulative dietary risk factors were represented using a score ranging from 0 (healthiest) to 9 (least healthy) This was derived from 9 food items based on current UK guidelines. Follow-up was conducted until June 2020 for mortality, and for incidence, up to June 2020 in England.

Meaning in life is associated consistently with greater self-reported physical activity. Participants between the ages of 40 and 70 years old from the UK Biobank wore an accelerometer for up to seven days and reported on their meaning in life. Higher meaning was associated with greater engagement in physical activity, an association robust across age, gender, and education.

Sickle cell trait (SCT) carriers inherit one copy of the Glu6Val mutation in the hemoglobin gene. SCT carriers are particularly common in Black individuals (5-10%). Considering the roles of hemoglobin in immune responses and the higher risk for coronavirus disease (COVID-19) among Black individuals, we tested whether Black S CT carriers were at increased risk for infection and mortality.

There is increasing evidence that red and processed meat consumption is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular (CV) disease. Little literature reported the association among people with obesity versus those without obesity. We sought to investigate this using the UK Biobank data.

Physical activity, and the timing and balance of physical activity and sleep/rest, were associated with SARS-CoV-2 positivity and COVID-19 severity. Data from 91,248 UK Biobank participants with accelerometer data to July 19, 2020, were included.

We develop a scalable and highly efficient algorithm to fit a Cox proportional hazard model. We analyze a large genotype-survival time dataset across 306 disease outcomes from the UK Biobank. We provide a publicly available implementation of the proposed approach for genetics data.

Chondrocytes from osteophytic cartilage showed widespread differences to low-grade articular cartilage chondroytes. These differences were similar to, but more pronounced than, differences between chondrosomes from high-grade cartilage and osteophytes. We identified 56 genes with significant differences.

Males had higher raw volumes, raw surface areas, and white matter fractional anisotropy; females had higher cortical thickness and higher white matter tract complexity. Subregional differences were not fully attributable to differences in total volume, total surface area, mean cortical thickness, or height. Functional connectome organization showed stronger connectivity for males in unimodal sensorimotor cortices.

The causes of microscopic colitis are currently poorly understood. Previous reports have found associations with coeliac disease and genetic associations at the human leukocyte antigen [HLA] locus on the ancestral 8.1 haplotype.

Polygenic scores (PSs) are becoming a useful tool to identify individuals with high genetic risk for complex diseases. Several projects are currently testing their utility for translational applications. It is not well known how the population genetic properties of the training and target samples affect the geographic distribution of PSs.

UK Biobank includes detailed health-related data on about 500,000 individuals. Data files vary in format, may be very large, and have numerical codes for column names. ukbtools removes all the upfront data wrangling required to get a single dataset.

Few replicable genetic associations for Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) have been identified. Genome-wide meta-analysis of MDD in males yielded one genome-wide significant locus on 3p22.3.

200 632 subjects who have undergone exome sequencing by the UK Biobank were investigated to identify any variants predicted to cause HIRA haploinsufficiency. Four were found, three with frameshift variants and one with a stop variant. One of these subjects had depression but the others did not have any major neuropsychiatric phenotypes.

Colocalization is a statistical method used in genetics to determine whether the same variant is causal for multiple phenotypes. Current colocalization methods require full summary statistics for both traits. We propose a new approximation to the popular coloc method that can be applied when limited summary statistics are available.

Alpha1-antitrypsin deficiency (AATD) is the most prominent genetic predisposition to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and emphysema. AAT plays important immunomodulatory and tissue-protective roles. It was suggested to protect from severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) screening reduces CRC incidence and mortality. It is unclear whether the reduction in CRC risk may differ by genetic susceptibility. We evaluated this question in a cohort of 304,740 participants of European descent aged 50 years and older.

Cigarette smoking and obesity pose a particular impairment to health. Genetic factors have been shown to influence both traits. We examined the observed and genetic relationship between adiposity and cigarettes smoked per day in a large sample of current, former, and never smokers.

Higher grip strength is associated with better health outcomes. The optimal way to report grip strength (i.e. absolute vs. relative) for prediction, however, remains to be established.

We performed a systematic evaluation of the relationships between locomotor activity and signatures of frailty, morbidity, and mortality risks. We used physical activity records from the 2003-2006 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) and UK BioBank (UKB) The Principal Component Analysis of the transformed data revealed a winding trajectory with distinct segments corresponding to subsequent human development stages.

Biobanks have facilitated the conduct of large-scale genomics studies. They are challenged by the difficulty of validating some phenotypes. The guideline definition of COPD, based on objective spirometry measures, has been preferred in genome-wide association studies.

Neanderthal DNA affects skin tone and hair color, height, sleeping patterns, mood, and smoking status in present-day Europeans. Multiple Neanderthal alleles at different loci contribute to skin and hair colour in current Europeans. This suggests that Neanderthals themselves were most likely variable in these traits.

Mendelian randomization and colocalization are two statistical approaches that can be applied to summarized data from genome-wide association studies. Despite similarities in scope, they are different in their objectives, implementation, and interpretation. In this review, we discuss how the two approaches can provide complementary information on potential therapeutic targets.

Identifying gene sets associated to disease can provide valuable biological knowledge. A fundamental challenge of gene set analyses of GWAS data is linking disease-associated SNPs to genes. We developed a method, gene co-regulation score (GCSC) regression, to identify gene sets that are enriched for disease heritability explained by predicted expression.

An important goal of clinical genomics is to estimate the risk of adverse disease outcomes. Between 5% and 10% of individuals with ulcerative colitis require colectomy within 5 years of diagnosis. By contrast, gene expression profiling of GWAS-significant genes provides some stratification of risk of progression to complicated disease.

Most methods for fast detection of identity by descent (IBD) segments report identity by state segments. We present a method for determining the posterior probability distribution of IBD segment endpoints. Our approach accounts for genotype errors, recent mutations, and gene conversions which disrupt DNA sequence identity within IBD segments.

Cancer-PRSweb is an online repository of polygenic risk scores (PRSs) for 35 common cancer traits. PRSs are compiled from genome-wide association studies (GWASs) summary statistics. We expect this integrated platform to accelerate PRS-related cancer research.

Recombination rates vary significantly across the genome. Estimates of recombination rates are needed for downstream analyses. Existing methods for recombination rate estimation are limited by insufficient amounts of informative genetic data or by high computational cost. We present a method and software, called IBDrecomb, for using segments of identity by descent to infer recombining rates.

In complex trait genetics, the ability to predict phenotype from genotype is the ultimate measure of our understanding of genetic architecture underlying the heritability of a trait. We propose a polygenic risk prediction method that does not require explicitly modeling any underlying genetic architecture. NPS improves the identification of groups at high risk for breast cancer, type 2 diabetes, inflammatory bowel disease, and coronary heart disease.

Bayesian model comparison approach called MRP (multiple rare variants and phenotypes) for rare-variant association studies. We apply our method to exome sequencing data (n = 184,698) across 2,019 traits from the UK Biobank. MRP demonstrates an ability to recover signals such as associations between PCSK9 and LDL cholesterol levels.

Study looked at a group of 168 348 participants aged between 40 and 69 years. The 4-year incidence of tinnitus was 8.7%. Age, hearing difficulties, work noise exposure, ototoxic medication and neuroticism were all positively associated with both tinn Titus and bothersome tinnitis.

Previous studies suggest that changes in body weight can lead to an increased risk of mortality in the general population. The current study sought to investigate this association further using data from the UK Biobank.

Frequency and quantity of alcohol consumption are metrics commonly used to measure alcohol consumption behaviors. Epidemiological studies indicate that these alcohol consumption measures are differentially associated with (mental) health outcomes and socioeconomic status (SES) The current study aims to elucidate to what extent genetic risk factors are shared between alcohol consumption and SES.

Genome-wide genotyping and machine learning algorithms offer the ability to genotype embryos for polygenic disease risk. Results indicate a 45-72% reduced risk with blinded genetic selection of one sibling. First clinical case of polygenic risk scoring in human preimplantation embryos from patients with a family history of complex disease.

Genetic variation in melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R) has a known role in red hair. Studies on responses to noxious stimuli in red-haired individuals have also been conducted. To investigate a possible divergence between variants responsible for red hair and pain sensitivity, we performed a genewide association analysis.

The circumstances in which selection causes bias in an instrumental variable (IV) analysis are not widely understood by practitioners of IV analyses. We present an application from the UK Biobank study, which is known to be a selected sample of the general population. We show that selection can result in a biased IV estimate with substantial confidence interval (CI) undercoverage.

The UK Biobank is a rich national health resource that provides enormous opportunities for international researchers to examine, model, and analyze multisource healthcare data. Using 7,614 imaging, clinical, and phenotypic features of 9,914 subjects we performed deep computed phenotyping using unsupervised clustering.

Recent genome wide association studies (GWAS) suggest pleiotropic effects on human complex traits are widespread. A number of classic and recent meta-analysis methods have been used to identify genetic loci. The overall performance of these methods is not well understood. We use extensive simulations and case studies of GWAS datasets to investigate the power and type-I error rates of ten meta- analysis methods.

Genomic prediction has the potential to contribute to precision medicine. To date, the utility of such predictors is limited due to low accuracy for most traits. Theory and simulation study are used to demonstrate that widespread pleiotropy among phenotypes can be utilised to improve genomic risk prediction.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) have shown promise in predicting human complex traits and diseases. We present PRS-CS, a polygenic prediction method that infers posterior effect sizes of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) using genome-wide association summary statistics and an external linkage disequilibrium (LD) reference panel. Simulation studies using data from the UK Biobank show that PRs-CS outperforms existing methods across a wide range of genetic architectures.

Osteoarthritis is a common complex disease imposing a large public-health burden. Here, we performed a genome-wide association study for osteoarth arthritis, using data across 16.5 million variants from the UK Biobank resource. After performing replication and meta-analysis in up to 30,727 cases and 297,191 controls, we identified nine new osteaarthritis loci.

UK Biobank is a prospective cohort study in which baseline data were captured between 2006 and 2010 in 502,649 participants aged 37 to 73 years. Follow-up for ALS hospitalisations and death was made via national registries.

Genome-wide association study (GWAS) analyses based on 456,327 UK Biobank (UKB) individuals identify 8 independent and significant loci for PUD at, or near, genes MUC1, MUC6, FUT2, PSCA, ABO, CDX2, GAST and CCKBR.

X-linked causes have been hypothesised to underlie the higher developmental disorder rates in males. We evaluate the burden of X-linked coding variation in 11,044 developmental disorder patients. We identify 23 significant genes, all of which were previously known. We estimate that only 13% of inherited rare missense variants in known developmental disorder-associated genes are likely to be pathogenic.

Many human proteins contain domains that vary in size or copy number because of variable numbers of tandem repeats (VNTRs) in protein-coding exons. The relationships of VN TRs to most phenotypes are unknown because of difficulties in measuring such repetitive elements. We developed methods to estimate VNTR lengths from whole-exome sequencing data and impute VnTR alleles into single-nucleotide polymorphism haplotypes.

People aged 40-69 years from the UK Biobank cohort and Korean National Health Insurance Service cohort were included in this observational cohort study. The study groups were stratified into normotension, controlled hypertension and uncontrolled hypertension groups. The outcomes were MACCEs and all-cause mortality, analysed by Cox regression analysis.

Mendelian randomization has been used to estimate the causal effect of body mass index (BMI) on traits thought to be affected by BMI. BMI may also be a modifiable, causal risk factor for outcomes where there is no prior reason to suggest that a causal effect exists. We performed a MR phenome-wide association study (MR-pheWAS) to search for the causal effects of BMI in UK Biobank.

Osteoporosis is an age-associated disease characterised by low bone mineral density (BMD) and micro-architectural deterioration leading to enhanced fracture risk. Conventional dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) analysis has facilitated our understanding of BMD reduction in specific regions of interest (ROIs) within the femur. A new technique, termed DXA region free analysis, is proposed to eliminate morphological variation between DXA scans.

UK Biobank recruited adults across England, Scotland and Wales, between March 2006 and July 2010. Fluid intelligence was measured as the number of correct answers during a two minute logic/reasoning-test. Reaction time was measured in average time taken to respond to matching symbols on a computer screen. Cardiorespiratory fitness was measured through a sub-maximal exercise test.

An online mental health questionnaire completed by UK Biobank participants was expected to expand the potential for research into mental disorders. Thirty-five per cent of participants had at least one defined syndrome, of which lifetime depression was the most common.

Walking pace is associated with all-cause and cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality. Whether this association extends to other health outcomes and whether it is independent of total amount of time walked are currently unknown. UK Biobank participants (318,185 women) age 40 to 69 yr were included.

Handgrip strength may provide an easily-administered marker of cognitive functional status. relationships between grip strength and cognitive functioning in people with schizophrenia have yet to be explored. Baseline data from the UK Biobank (2007-2010) was analyzed.

Hair color is one of the most recognizable visual traits in European populations and is under strong genetic control. We identified 123 autosomal and one X-chromosome loci significantly associated with hair color; all but 13 are novel. These results confirm the polygenic nature of complex phenotypes and improve our understanding of melanin pigment metabolism in humans.

There is considerable interest in estimating the causal effect of a range of maternal environmental exposures on offspring health-related outcomes. Previous attempts to do this using Mendelian randomization methodologies have been hampered by the paucity of epidemiological cohorts with large numbers of mother-offspring pairs.

Identifying causal effects in nonexperimental data is an enduring challenge. Mendelian randomization (MR) is problematic because many variables of interest are genetically correlated. Here, we propose an alternative approach, genetic instrumental variable (GIV) regression. GIV regression uses polygenic scores (PGSs) for the outcome of interest.

The risk of mortality from cardiovascular disease (CVD) is higher in wintertime. It is not known if this reflects annual changes in diet or lifestyle, or an endogenous photoperiodic mechanism that is sensitive to changes in day length. In this cross-sectional study, we report annual variations in cardiovascular risk factors and mortality that were associated with day length independent of environmental and lifestyle factors.

Diffusion MRI data can be affected by hardware and subject-related artefacts that can adversely affect downstream analyses. Automated quality control (QC) is of great importance, especially in large population studies where visual QC is not practical. We introduce an automated diffusion MRI QC framework for single subject and group studies.

Loneliness may be more important as a risk factor for self-harm than for suicide. Loneliness also appears to lessen the protective associations of cohabitation.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) provide a personalized genetic susceptibility profile that may be leveraged for disease prediction. Using data from the UK Biobank, we quantify the added predictive value of integrating cancer-specific PRS with family history and modifiable risk factors for 16 cancers. We show that incorporating PRS measurably improves prediction accuracy for most cancers.

"Brain age" is the apparent age of a subject, as inferred from brain imaging data. The difference between brain age and actual age (the "delta") is typically computed. This may reflect accelerated aging (positive delta) or resilience (negative delta)

Rare variants in ten genes have been reported to cause Mendelian sleep conditions characterised by extreme sleep duration or timing. The association of variants in these genes with extreme sleep conditions were usually based on clinically ascertained families. We aimed to determine the effects of these variants on sleep traits in large population-based cohorts. Analyses were performed using 191,929 individuals with data on sleep and whole-exome or genome-sequence data.

Grip strength is a widely used and well-validated measure of overall health that is increasingly understood to index risk for psychiatric illness and neurodegeneration in older adults. This study investigated the behavioral and neural correlates of handgrip strength using a linear mixed effect model and mediation analysis. The results revealed widespread associations between stronger grip strength and increased grey matter volume.

CeVD is the second leading cause of disability worldwide. Understanding who may be genetically predisposed to cerebrovascular disease can help guide preventative efforts. The UK Biobank based ICD10 study identified 2 groups of variants that were associated with CeVD.

Human iron nutrition is a result of interplays between genetic and environmental factors. There has been scarcity of data on the genetic variants associated with altered iron homeostasis. In this study, we compared between the Taiwanese Han Chinese (HC) and European Whites the genetic determinants of hemoglobin (Hb) concentration.

Study looked at the association between microvascular disease (MVD) and risk of heart failure (HF) among individuals with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) or type 2 diabetes mellitis (T2DM) There were 145 and 2,515 incident cases of HF among participants with T1DM and T2DM, respectively, during a median follow-up of 11.5 years.

Transcriptome-wide association studies (TWASs) have shown great promise in interpreting the findings. Almost all TWAS methods only focus on one gene at a time. We developed a Network Regression method in a two-stage TWAS framework (NeRiT) to detect whether a given network is associated with traits of interest.

Identifying genetic variants associated with lower waist-to-hip ratio can reveal new therapeutic targets for abdominal obesity. In vitro characterization of the most common INHBE pLOF variant in our study, indicates an in-frame deletion resulting in a 90% reduction in secreted protein levels. We detect associations with lower WHRadjBMI for variants in ACVR1C.

Clinical and epidemiological studies have shown that circulatory system diseases and nervous system disorders often co-occur in patients. Genetic susceptibility factors shared between these disease categories remain largely unknown. Using a formal test of pleiotropy, five genomic loci demonstrated statistically significant evidence of Pleiotropy.

Indication extension or repositioning of drugs can, if done well, provide a faster, cheaper, and derisked route to the approval of new therapies. This is exemplified by a systematic analysis of all development candidates and on-market drugs, which identified 477 indication extension opportunities.

Dietary fat enhances intestinal fructose metabolism, which releases glycerate into the blood. Chronic high systemic Glycerate levels induce glucose intolerance by slowly damaging pancreatic islet cells and reducing islet sizes.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) are indices of genetic liability for illness. Their clinical utility for predicting risk for a specific psychiatric disorder is limited. Genetic overlap among disorders and their effects on allied phenotypes may be a possible explanation. We constructed PRSs for 5 psychiatric disorders and 3 nonpsychiatric control traits.

Study investigated whether active, former and passive smoking were associated with sleep disturbance. Long-sleep duration was more common among current smokers. Existing global tobacco control interventions need to be enforced.

Those taking opiates and CM drugs had the worst CM health profile with a 95%, 82% and 63% increased odds of reporting obesity, 'very high risk' waist circumference and hypertension, respectively.

In the current precision medicine era, more and more samples get genotyped and sequenced. It has been reported that there is a sample mix-up rate of between 0.1% and 1%. This translates to a significant number of mislabeled samples.

Only seven methods could effectively control the type I error, and these well-calibrated approaches had varying power performance under the simulation scenarios. The burden test was generally underpowered and score-based variance component tests (e.g., sequence kernel association test) were much powerful under the polygenic genetic architecture.

Previous studies have often evaluated methods for Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis based on simulations that do not adequately reflect the data-generating mechanisms. We use a simulation framework that generates data on full GWAS for two traits under a realistic model for effect-size distribution. We further use recent data generated from GWAS of 38 biomarkers in the UK Biobank and performed down sampling to investigate trends in estimates of causal effects of these biomarkers on the risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D)

The development of accurate risk prediction models is hindered by the wide diversity of genetic architecture across different traits. We develop a summary statistics-based nonparametric method that does not rely on validation datasets to tune parameters. We show that our method is adaptive to different genetic architectures and statistically robust.

Analyzing 12,361 all-cause cirrhosis cases and 790,095 controls from eight cohorts, we identify a common missense variant in the Mitochondrial Amidoxime Reducing Component 1 gene (MARC1 p.A165T) This variant also associates with lower levels of hepatic fat on computed tomographic imaging.

Hearing loss is associated with poor cognitive performance and incident dementia. Treating hearing loss with hearing aids may ameliorate cognitive decline. The purpose of this study was to test whether use of hearing aids was associated with better cognitive performance.

Clinical studies indicate increased risk for depression and anxiety among tinnitus patients. However population data are scarce, and no studies have controlled for neuroticism. We examined associations between tinn Titus and symptoms of depression and Anxiety in a large UK population.

It is unclear what the contribution of prenatal versus childhood development is for adult cognitive and sensory function and age-related decline in function. We examined hearing, vision and cognitive function in adulthood according to self-reported birth weight and adult height. Within the normal range of birth weight (10th to 90th percentile), there was a positive association between birth weight.

Study aimed to explore how healthy lifestyles and genetic factors influence the risk of Osteoporosis (OP) Results:  People with higher GRS have a lower risk of OP and fracture.

We performed logistic regression for ICU admission against a polygenic score (PGS) for Cystatin C (CyC) production in patients with COVID-19. In four cohorts spanning European and African ancestry populations, we identified a significant association between CyC-production PGS and odds of critical illness. Our findings suggest that CyC may be useful for stratification of patients.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have successfully identified common variants associated with BMI. However, the stability of aggregate genetic variation influencing BMI from midlife and beyond is unknown. We analysed 165,717 men and 193,073 women from the UKBiobank.

Mendelian randomization (MR) and polygenic risk score (PRS) studies can induce overfitting bias. We evaluated a block jackknife resampling framework for genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and PRS construction. Based on a P-value threshold to derive genetic instruments for MR studies (P), we simulated PRS and MR under three scenarios.

There is a need for improved risk stratification to guide surgical decision-making that could be fulfilled by PRS. We derived a PRS with 44 single-nucleotide polymorphisms associated with diverticular disease in the UK Biobank and validated this score in the Michigan Genomics Initiative. Patients in the highest PRS decile were more likely to have diverticulitis.

We show that existing sensitivity analyses can be formulated in our framework. We demonstrate that our method can produce informative bounds using plausible population-level auxiliary constraints. We conclude with a motivating example on the causal effect of education on income in the highly selected UK Biobank cohort.

We determined the whole-genome sequences of 150,119 individuals from the UK Biobank. We identified more than 600 million sequence variants. The comprehensive data identify novel associations with human traits.

Genetic and phenotypic analyses of data from over 400,000 participants in the UK Biobank identified 10 new loci associated with the development of clonal hematopoiesis. DNA damage, oncogene signaling, telomere maintenance and blood cell homing in its pathogenesis.

There is substantial overlap in recruitment across the two cohorts. The women in both studies were more likely to be married, have higher levels of education attainment and more financial stability. It is possible these characteristics are reflected more generally within UKBB compared to the wider population.

Natural selection has been documented in contemporary humans, but little is known about the mechanisms behind it. We test for natural selection through the association between 33 polygenic scores and fertility, across two generations, using data from UK Biobank. The direction of natural selection is reversed among older parents.

Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with BP were identified in a genome-wide association study. SNPs were used to assess the BP versus IOP relationship in a distinct sample (n = 70,832) Corneal-compensated IOP (IOPcc) was measured.

Family history of complex traits may reflect transmitted rare pathogenic variants, intra-familial shared exposures to environmental and lifestyle factors, as well as a common genetic predisposition. We developed a latent factor model to quantify trait heritability in excess of that captured by a common variant-based polygenic risk score.

Population-scale neuroimaging studies offer the promise of discovery and characterisation of subtle risk factors. Massive sample sizes increase the power for meaningful associations and those attributable to confounds. This motivates the need for causal modelling of observational data that goes beyond statements of association.

Human cardiac function is characterized by a complex interplay of mechanical deformation and electrophysiological conduction. We propose a novel multi-domain Variational Autoencoder (VAE) network to capture combined Electrocardiogram (ECG) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)-based 3D anatomy information in a single model.

A U-shape relationship was observed between BMI and fracture, with the lowest risk of fracture in overweight participants. The obesity individuals had higher fracture risk when BMD was adjusted. The protective effect of moderate-high BMI on fracture was mostly mediated by bone mineral density.

SARS-CoV-2 has resulted in a global pandemic with a rapidly developing global health and economic crisis. Variations in the disease have been observed and have been associated with the genomic sequence of either the human host or the pathogen.

Taller adult height is associated with lower risks of ischemic heart disease in mendelian randomization (MR) studies. Little is known about the causal relevance of height for different sub types of stroke. Height-associated genetic variants were used to construct genetic instruments in different ancestral populations.

Study looked at effects of sleep traits on glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) Found a higher frequency of insomnia symptoms was associated with higher Hb a1c. Findings could have important implications for developing and evaluating strategies that improve sleep habits.

Despite decades of methods development for classifying relatives, pairwise relatedness methods' recalls are above 90% only for first through third-degree relatives. Top-performing approaches, which leverage identity-by-descent segments, often use only kinship coefficients. To quantify the potential for using segment numbers in relatedness inference, we leveraged information theory.

Genome-wide sequencing of human populations has revealed substantial variation among genes in the intensity of purifying selection acting on damaging genetic variants. Most genes under the strongest selective constraint are highly enriched for associations with Mendelian disorders. We show that genetic variants that damage these genes are associated with markedly reduced reproductive success.

Large-scale molecular profiling and genotyping provide a unique opportunity to compare the genetically predicted effects of therapeutic targets on the human metabolome. Genetically predicted effects were generally consistent among drug targets, which were intended to modify the same lipoprotein lipid trait.

In women, higher BioT was associated with obesity, upper-body fat distribution, and low HDL-cholesterol. Conversely, obesity and android fat distribution were associated with elevated serum BioT in men. Adipose tissue and metabolic dysfunction are associated with deranged sex hormone levels in both sexes.

Disease-disease networks (DDNs) can provide an intuitive way of understanding the relationships between phenotypes. Using summary statistics from a phenome-wide association study (PheWAS), we can generate a corresponding DDN where edges represent shared genetic variants between diseases.

We used genetically informed brain atlases in genome-wide association studies of regional cortical surface area and thickness in 39,898 adults and 9136 children. Inferior frontal regions, encompassing Broca's area, which is important for speech, were enriched for human-specific genomic elements.

Low frequency mutations within the filaggrin ( FLG ) gene are established genetic risk factors for atopic dermatitis. Studies of FLG have typically used sequencing or bespoke genotyping. Large-scale population cohorts with genome-wide imputed data offer powerful genetic analysis opportunities.

Time-varying correlations (Functional Connectivity) in resting fMRI have been shown to be predictive of behavioural traits, and psychiatric and neurological conditions. Typically, methods that measure time varying Functional Connectivity (FC) do not separately model when changes occur in the mean activity levels and in the FC. We show that this can bias the estimation of time-varies FC to appear more stable over time than it actually is.

A total of 95,854 participants with complete data on plasma FA from the UK Biobank were enrolled between 2006 and 2010. Plasma concentrations of SFA and MUFA were positively associated with T2D risk, while plasma PUFA were inversely associated. Circulating MUFA and n-3 PUFA had significant interactions with genetic predisposition to T2d and FA-associated variants.

The OAS1/2/3 cluster has been identified as a risk locus for severe COVID-19 among individuals of European ancestry. It has a protective haplotype of approximately 75 kilobases (kb) derived from Neanderthals in the chromosomal region 12q24.13. This haplotype contains a splice variant of OAS 1, which occurs in people of African ancestry independently of gene flow from Neanderthal.

Alterations in the anatomic and biomechanical properties of the ascending aorta (AAo) can give rise to various vascular pathologies. The aim of the current study is to gain additional insights in the biology of the AAo size and function.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of coffee drinking have identified genetic variants involved in caffeine-related pathways but not in taste perception. The taste of coffee can be altered by addition of milk/sweetener, which has not been accounted for in GWAS.

Sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) which lowers circulating testosterone might protect men against IHD. SHBG may also affect IHD independent of testosterone, which has not previously been examined. Exploring intervention strategies that increase SHBG is important for targeting IHD treatments.

Higher resting heart rate (RHR) may be associated with increased cardiometabolic risk. However, causal associations are not fully understood. We examined the direction, strength, and causality of the associations of RHR with cardiometric traits. We identified significant directionally concordant observational associations between RHR and higher total cholesterol, triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein, C-reactive protein (CRP), glucose, body mass index, waist-hip ratio (WHR), systolic blood pressure (SBP), and diastolicBlood pressure (DBP)

Higher number of pain sites was associated with increased risk of all-cause mortality compared to having no pain. At least half of the association of chronic musculoskeletal pain with increased all- Cause mortality may be accounted for by four mediators. All four mediator proportions ranged from 53.4% to 122.6%.

Problematic alcohol use (PAU) is positively genetically correlated with internalizing psychopathology. Alcohol consumption ranges from not significantly correlated to moderately negatively correlated. Brain tissues contribute significantly to positive genetic covariance between PAU and PAU, but not to the genetic correlation between internalizing. psychopathology and quantity of alcohol consumption.

Schizophrenia is a heritable neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by neuroanatomical changes in the brain. How increased genetic burden for schizophrenia influences brain structure is unknown. How environmental risk factors for schizophrenia impact brain Structure is not fully understood.

Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are among the leading causes of death worldwide. Predictive scores providing personalized risk of developing CVD are increasingly used in clinical practice. Most scores utilize a homogenous set of features and require the presence of a physician. Aim was to develop a new risk model (DiCAVA) using statistical and machine learning techniques.

Modern molecular genetic datasets can be used to directly measure the action of natural selection. Here we leverage the UK Biobank data to test for the presence of linear and nonlinear natural selection in a contemporary population of the United Kingdom.

Osteoarthritis causes pain and functional disability for over 500 million people worldwide. To develop disease-stratifying tools and modifying therapies, we need a better understanding of the molecular basis of the disease in relevant tissue and cell types.

Three loss-of-function single-nucleotide variants have been established as strongly correlated with red hair. We report a correlation with red. hair for both strong-effect variants (rs1805007, rs1805008 and rs18 1905009) and weak-effect. variants. Our best model for predicting red versus other hair colours yields an unparalleled area under the receiver operating characteristic of 0.96.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) can provide useful information for personalized risk stratification and disease risk assessment. However, their construction depends on the availability of summary statistics from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) independent from the target sample. GWAS, especially in the field of cancer, often lack diversity and are predominated by European ancestry.

Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), albuminuria and serum uric acid (SUA) are markers of kidney function that have been associated with cognitive ability. However, whether these associations are causal is unclear. We performed one-sample Mendelian randomization to estimate the effects of these kidney function markers on cognitive performance.

 Variation in obesity-related traits has a genetic basis with heritabilities between 40 and 70%. The global obesity pandemic is usually associated with environmental changes. Most genetic studies do not include all relevant environmental covariates.

Most age-related human diseases are accompanied by a decline in cellular organelle integrity. Here, we evaluate if genetic loci encoding organelle proteomes confer greater-than-expected disease risk. We find that genes encoding several organelles tend to be 'haplosufficient'

 increasing evidence has shown adverse effects of loneliness on cardiometabolic health. Oxytocin has been linked with social cognition and behaviour, but also with energy metabolism and obesity. We calculated the genetic contribution of single nucleotide polymorphisms in the oxytocin pathway to the polygenic architecture of loneliness and body mass index.

Stochastic Probabilistic Functional Modes (sPROFUMO) is scalable to UK Biobank (UKB) with expected 100,000 participants. It hierarchically estimates functional brain networks in individuals and the population, while allowing for bidirectional flow of information.

SARS-CoV-2 has resulted in a global pandemic with a rapidly developing global health and economic crisis. Variations in the disease have been observed and have been associated with the genomic sequence of either the human host or the pathogen.

Eosinophilic asthma is one of the most common subtypes of asthma diagnosed in adulthood. This study suggests a negative association between individual-level exposures to greenness and eosinophile asthma in adults. It provides new evidence to the existing investigations on health effect of green space https://bit.ly/3fVKWS3

Segmentation of the left and right ventricles in cardiac MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) is a prerequisite step for evaluating global and regional cardiac function. This work presents a novel and robust schema for MRI segmentation by combining the advantages of deep learning localization and 3D-ASM (3D Active Shape Model) restriction.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is prevalent worldwide. UK Biobank study participants were diagnosed for whether NAFLD presented at baseline. Compared with participants who were non-obese and had low genetic risk, those with obesity and high genetic risk had an 75% increased risk for developing SLDs, T2D, CVDs, and CKDs.

Men with more advantaged socioeconomic position (SEP) have higher levels of testosterone. It is unclear whether these associations arise because testosterone has a causal impact on SEP. In 306,248 participants of UK Biobank, we performed sex-stratified genome-wide association analysis to identify genetic variants associated with testosterone.

The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has become a global pandemic. Here, we performed a study on host susceptibility to the infection. The data consisted of 27,713 samples including 2740 positive cases.

The characterization of germline genetic variation affecting cancer risk is fundamental to preventive and personalized medicine. Studies of genetic cancer predisposition typically identify significant genomic regions based on family-based cohorts or genome-wide association studies (GWAS) However, results of such studies rarely provide biological insight or functional interpretation.

Brain regions communicate with each other through tracts of myelinated axons, commonly referred to as white matter. We identified common genetic variants influencing white matter microstructure using diffusion magnetic resonance imaging of 43,802 individuals.

Few tools exist for the visualization of colocalization between eQTL and GWAS results. eQTpLot takes as input standard GWAS and cis-eQTL summary statistics, and optional pairwise LD information. It generates a series of plots visualizing colocalized, correlation, and enrichment.

Study included 284,767 white British participants of UK Biobank. Incidence of overall, ischemic, and hemorrhagic stroke was adjudicated during 11.5-year follow-up. Stroke hazards for the top muscle strength tertile were consistently lower across genetic risk strata, with no evidence of interaction.

Coffee consumption has been linked to a lower risk of cardiovascular disease in observational studies. We conducted a Mendelian randomization investigation to assess the potential causal role of coffee consumption in cardiovascular disease. Genetic predisposition to higher coffee consumption was not associated with any of the 15 studied cardiovascular outcomes.

Genotypes, cell type, and treatment have not been comprehensively studied together. Cellular responses involved different genes and pathways for gene expression and splicing. For thousands of genes, we identified variable allelic expression across contexts.

Loneliness, social isolation then cigarette smoking were associated with an increased risk of mortality from all-causes and all cancers combined. When cardiovascular disease mortality was the endpoint, both smoking and social isolation, though not loneliness, revealed similar relationships.

Brain-age delta has become a meaningful biomarker for the health of the brain. We report the details of our brain age prediction models and results in the Predictive Analysis Challenge 2019.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) often adjust for covariates, correct for medication use, or select on medication users. If these statistics are used in two-sample Mendelian randomization analyses, estimates may be biased. We used simulations to investigate how GWAS adjustment, correction and selection affects estimates.

Germline predisposition variants associated with colorectal cancer (CRC) have been identified but all are not yet identified. We sought to identify the responsible predisposition germline variant in an extended high-risk CRC pedigree. DNA from two distantly related carriers of the hypothesized predisposition haplotype on 18q12.2 was sequenced to identify candidate variants.

Most research on large multimodal databases has been focusing on studying the associations among the available measurements. We propose an approach in which the parameter personalisation of a lumped cardiovascular model is constrained by the statistical relationships observed between model parameters and brain-volumetric indices.

High-resolution (HR), isotropic cardiac Magnetic Resonance (MR) cine imaging is challenging since it requires long acquisition and patient breath-hold times. We propose a novel adversarial learning super-resolution algorithm based on conditional generative adversarial nets (GANs) that incorporates a state-of-the-art optical flow component to generate an auxiliary image.

CNNs achieve high levels of performance by leveraging deep, over-parametrized neural architectures. To improve robustness and obtain more computationally and memory efficient models, better inductive biases are needed. We propose tensor dropout, a randomization technique that can be applied to tensor factorizations.

The severity of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by SARS-CoV-2 is highly heterogeneous. Studies have reported that males and some ethnic groups are at increased risk of death from COVID- 19. This implies that individual risk might be influenced by host genetic factors. We perform a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of data for 1778 infected cases.

The ever-growing genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have revealed widespread pleiotropy. To exploit this, various methods that jointly consider associations of a genetic variant with multiple traits have been developed. We provide a protocol for replicating multi-trait genetic associations in practice.

Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) consistently detects increased mean diffusivity and decreased fractional anisotropy with advancing age. However, findings have been inconsistent in regions of more complex fiber architecture. The present study uses an orthogonal diffusion tensor decomposition based on the 3 eigenvalue moments to yield clear voxelwise degeneration patterns.

We found decreased colorectal cancer risk for genetically represented measures of MVPA and AMPA that were additional to effects mediated through genetic measures of obesity. The proportion of effect mediated through BMI was 2% (95% CI: 0, 14) and 32% ( 95%CI: 12, 46) for MVPA & AMPA, respectively. No association has been found between sedentary time and colorctalcancer risk.

 Hypercholesterolemia is a causal and modifiable risk factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. A critical pathway regulating cholesterol homeostasis involves the receptor-mediated endocytosis of low-density lipoproteins into hepatocytes. We applied genome-scale CRISPR screening to query the genetic determinants of cellular LDL uptake.

Nonlinear data visualization methods often neglect the local density of data points in the original space. den-SNE and densMAP are density-preserving visualization tools. They are readily applicable to visualizing high-dimensional data in other scientific domains.

Alzheimer's disease is the leading cause of dementia. The long progression period in Alzheimer's disease provides a possibility for patients to get early treatment by having routine screenings. Current diagnostic imaging tools do not meet the specific requirements for screening procedures.

Large MRI neuroimaging datasets are becoming available, including many highly multi-site multi-scanner datasets. Combining the data from the different scanners is vital for increased statistical power. This leads to an increase in variance due to nonbiological factors such as the differences in acquisition protocols and hardware. We propose a deep learning based training scheme, inspired by domain adaptation techniques, which uses an iterative update approach.

Female sex, age and carriage of the apolipoprotein E e4 allele are the greatest risk factors for sporadic Alzheimer's disease. The hippocampus has a selective vulnerability to atrophy in ageing that may be accelerated in Alzheimer's.

Paired-End short Reads-based HAPlotyping from next-generation Sequencing data. Concordance rates between WES directly called diplotypes and the ones generated through statistical pre-phasing and imputation of SNP-array data are extremely high. We were able to determine the existence of the rare APOE*1 haplotype in two unrelated African subjects.

Physical activity (PA) is known to be a protective lifestyle factor against several non-communicable diseases. However, its impact on infectious diseases, including Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), is not as clear. We found that increased acceleration vector magnitude PA (AMPA) was associated with a decreased probability of overall and outpatient CO VID-19.

For decades, it has been known that gliomas follow a non-random spatial distribution. We combined neuroimaging data from 335 adult patients with high- and low-grade glioma to form a replicable tumour frequency map. Gliomas were localized to brain regions enriched with expression of genes associated with chromatin organization and synaptic signalling.

Several risk factors are associated with multiple sclerosis (MS) in adulthood. Evidence for risk factors acting from birth to adolescence is scarce. We used a 2-step study design to examine the association of early-life factors with risk of MS. An increase per 1 year in age at menarche was associated with a lower risk ofMS.

Toxoplasma gondii has been associated with cognitive function. Here, we sought to further characterize the association. Neither age nor educational attainment moderated associations. Sex, however, moderated the association between the sag1 titer and digit-symbol substitution.

Many aspects of sleep are heritable, but understandings of genetic factors involved in its physiology remain limited. We found two novel genome-wide loci on chromosomes 2 and 7 associated with global sleep quality. While NPY is an important sleep gene, we tested for an independent functional role of MPP6.

Heritability analysis plays a central role in quantitative genetics to describe genetic contribution to human complex traits. Existing works largely focus on modeling single phenotype and currently available multivariate phenotypic methods often suffer from scaling and interpretation. We develop an integrative Bayesian heritability analysis to jointly estimate heritabilities for high-dimensional neuroimaging traits.

Deep learning has unlocked unprecedented success in various domains. However, deep learning is only beneficial if the data have nonlinear relationships and if they are exploitable at available sample sizes. We systematically profiled the performance of deep, kernel, and linear models as a function of sample size on UKBiobank brain images.

The prevalence of myopia, or nearsightedness, has skyrocketed in the past few decades. In the UK alone, natural selection adds more than 100 000 myopia cases per generation.

Homozygous loss-of-function mutations in SLC39A8 result in undetectable serum manganese (Mn) and a Congenital Disorder of Glycosylation (CDG) N-glycome profiling revealed reduced complexity and branching.

Sketching is a probabilistic data compression technique that has been largely developed by the computer science community. Numerical operations on big datasets can be intolerably slow. We argue that the sketched data can be modelled as a random sample.

Machine Learning (ML) methods are widely used in the areas of risk prediction and classification. The primary objective of such algorithms is to use several features to predict dichotomous responses (e.g., healthy/at risk) ML modelling is subject to the problem of class imbalance and is affected by the majority class.

Evidence from observational studies suggest a positive association between serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels and differentiated thyroid carcinoma. This study aimed to investigate the causal role of TSH in both benign thyroid nodules and thyroid cancer in up to 451,025 UK Biobank participants. Mendelian randomization provided evidence of a causal link.

Preimplantation genetic testing for polygenic disease risk (PGT-P) represents a new tool to aid in embryo selection. When applied to select adult siblings with known type I diabetes status, a reduction in disease incidence of 45-72% was achieved.

 Linear mixed effects models (LMM) can account for correlations due to relatedness but have not been applicable in high-dimensional settings. We develop a blockwise coordinate descent algorithm with automatic tuning parameter selection. We show that ggmix leads to more parsimonious models compared to the two-stage approach.

Air pollution has been associated with cognitive function and brain volume. This study evaluated the association between PM2.5, PM10, nitrogen dioxide, and nitrogen oxides and volume of the thalamus in adults using the UK Biobank resource. In adjusted models, the left but not right thalamic volume was significantly inversely associated with PM 2.5-10.

Identifying the causal gene(s) that connects genetic variation to a phenotype is a challenging problem in genome-wide association studies (GWASs) Here, we develop a systematic approach that integrates mouse liver co-expression networks with human lipid GWAS data to identify regulators of cholesterol and lipid metabolism.

Genome-wide association studies have associated thousands of genetic variants with complex traits and diseases. pinpointing the causal variant(s) among those in tight linkage disequilibrium with each associated variant remains a major challenge. We use seven experimental assays to characterize all common variants at the multiple disease-associated TNFAIP3 locus in five disease-relevant immune cell lines.

The phecode system was built upon the International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM) The goal of this paper was to develop and perform an initial evaluation of maps from ICD-10 and I CD-10-CM. Of the unique codes observed in the UKBB and VUMC cohorts, >90% were mapped to phecodes.

Chronic pain is a complex trait that is moderately heritable and genetically, as well as phenotypically, correlated with major depressive disorder (MDD) Use of the conditional false discovery rate (cFDR) approach has been successful in discovering novel associated variants in related phenotypes. Using a moderately conservative threshold, we identified a total of 11 novel single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)

Ancient DNA has identified changes in genetic ancestry over time, but it is not clear whether those changes in ancestry are associated with changes in height. We directly test whether changes over the past 38,000 y in European height predicted using DNA from 1,071 ancient individuals are consistent with changes observed in 1,159 skeletal remains. We show that the observed decrease in height between the Early Upper Paleolithic and the Mesolithic is qualitatively predicted by genetics.

Linear mixed-effects models (LMM) are a leading method in conducting genome-wide association studies (GWAS) They require residual maximum likelihood (REML) estimation of variance components, which is computationally demanding. We introduce two novel algorithms that exploit problem structure via the principle of Krylov subspace shift-invariance to speed computation.

Brain imaging data are increasingly made publicly accessible. volumetric imaging measures derived from population-based cohorts may serve as normative data for individual patient diagnostic assessment. Yet, these normative cohorts are usually not a perfect reflection of a patient's base population.

Growth factor-independent 1B (GFI1B) variants are a rare cause of thrombocytopenia. This case highlights how diagnoses of exclusion can be confounded by genetic variation.

Chronic pain is highly prevalent worldwide and represents a significant socioeconomic and public health burden. We carried out a large-scale genome-wide association study (GWAS) of MCP in ~380,000 UK Biobank participants. Our findings were consistent with MCP having a significant polygenic component, with a Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP) heritability of 10.2%.

Study aimed to develop novel prediction algorithms using machine-learning, in addition to standard survival modelling. 502,628 participants aged 40-69 years were recruited to the UK Biobank from 2006-2010.

This article presents the results of 2 studies that investigated mood instability in the Eysenck neuroticism scales. The mood instability factor was positively correlated with impulsivity. The remaining factors, largely reflecting trait anxiety, were also positively correlated. Taken together, the results suggest that mood instability and trait anxiety are separable components of Eysanckian neuroticism.

18 candidate genes for depression that have been studied 10 or more times were identified. No clear evidence was found for any candidate gene polymorphism associations with depression phenotypes or any polymorphism-by-environment moderator effects. The authors demonstrate that phenotypic measurement error is unlikely to account for these null findings.

Circulating levels of glycine have previously been associated with lower incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) and type 2 diabetes (T2D) It remains uncertain if glycine plays an aetiological role. We present a meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies for glycine in 80,003 participants.

Schizophrenia is a highly heritable disorder for which anatomical brain alterations have been repeatedly reported in clinical samples. Unaffected at-risk groups have also been studied to identify brain changes that do not reflect reverse causation or treatment effects. No robust associations have been observed between neuroanatomical phenotypes and known genetic risk factors for schizophrenia.

Individual response to stress is correlated with neuroticism. It is an important predictor of both neuroticism and the onset of major depressive disorder (MDD) Identification of the genetics underpinning individual differences in response to negative events (stress-sensitivity) may improve our understanding of the molecular pathways involved.

Adult height inspired the first biometrical and quantitative genetic studies. It is a test-case trait for understanding heritability. The studies of height led to formulation of the classical polygenic model.

Deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have demonstrated remarkable success in image segmentation but typically require large training datasets. We developed a way to enhance cardiac MRI multi-class segmentation by combining the strengths of CNN and interpretable machine learning algorithms.

Large biobanks linking phenotype to genotype have led to an explosion of genetic association studies across a wide range of phenotypes. Sharing the knowledge generated by these resources with the scientific community remains a challenge due to patient privacy and the vast amount of data. Global Biobank Engine is a web-based tool that enables exploration of the relationship between genotype and phenotype in biobank cohorts.

Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) is an inflammatory rheumatic disease. It affects the axial skeleton and the sacroiliac joints. Recent studies investigated the link between AS and oral diseases.

The UK Biobank recruited 500,000 participants aged between 40 and 69 years. Participants were classified by genotype according to alleles of the rs1229984 single-nucleotide polymorphism. Chronic widespread pain was defined as pain all over the body for more than 3 months that interfered with activities.

Several studies have demonstrated the accuracy, precision, and reproducibility of proton density fat fraction (PDFF) quantification using vendor-specific image acquisition protocols and PDFF estimation methods. This work is to validate a confounder-corrected, cross-vendor, cross field-strength, in-house variant of the University of Wisconsin method.

We performed a meta-analysis of two genome-wide association studies of leiomyoma in European women. We uncovered 21 variants at 16 loci that associate with the disease. Four signals are located at established risk loci for hormone-related traits.

New method can estimate coalescence times using only SNP array data. We applied ASMC to detect recent positive selection in 113,851 phased British samples from the UK Biobank. We detected 12 genome-wide significant signals, including 6 novel loci.

Inbreeding increases the risk of certain Mendelian disorders in humans but may also reduce fitness through its effects on complex traits and diseases. Such inbreeding depression is thought to occur due to increased homozygosity at causal variants that are recessive with respect to fitness.

Existing methods are mostly developed for datasets without missing values. In practice, genotype imputation is not always effective. Using the new method, we identified novel independently associated variants at known loci for tobacco use.

Phrenology was a nineteenth century endeavour to link personality traits with scalp morphology. We were able to re-examine phrenology using 21st century methods and thousands of subjects. High-quality structural MRI was used to quantify local scalp curvature.

 Numerous studies have shown associations between genetic variants and neuropathic pain disorders. In this review, we survey the reported genetic contributors to neuropathy pain and submit them for validation in a 150,000-participant sample of the U.K. Biobank cohort. Successfully replicated association with a neuropathicPain construct for 2 variants in IL10 underscores the importance of neuroimmune interactions.

Elevated blood pressure (BP) is a major global risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Genome-wide association studies have identified several genetic variants at the NPR3 locus associated with BP. Here we confirmed the existence of two independent BP-related signals within NPR3.

PHESANT is a software package for performing comprehensive phenome scans in UK Biobank. It tests the association of a specified trait with all continuous, integer and categorical variables. PHESANT uses a novel rule-based algorithm to determine how to appropriately test each trait.

Common dysfunctional variants of ATP binding cassette subfamily G member 2 (Junior blood group) (ABCG2) that result in decreased urate excretion are major causes of hyperuricemia and gout. In the ABCG2 gene, 18 intronic (one dysfunctional splicing) and 11 exonic variants were detected: 9 were non-synonymous (2 common, 7 rare including 1 novel) The p.Q141K (rs2231142) variant had a significantly higher minor allele frequency (0.23) in the gout patients compared with the European-origin population.

The amplitudes of spontaneous fluctuations in brain activity may be a significant source of within-subject and between-subject variability. This variability is likely to be carried through into functional connectivity (FC) estimates. improving our understanding of amplitude fluctuations is of great relevance to the interpretation of FC findings.

 Reduced ventilatory function is an established predictor of all-cause mortality in general population cohorts. We sought to verify this in lifelong non-smokers, among whom confounding by active smoking can be excluded. We investigated associations with circulatory and cancer deaths.

Genome-wide association analysis for insomnia complaints in 113,006 individuals from the UK Biobank. Finds associations with variants near seven genes.

Neuroticism is a risk factor for selected mental and physical illnesses. It is inversely associated with intelligence. Intelligence appears to interact with neuroticism and mitigate its detrimental effects on physical health and mortality.

John Perry and colleagues identify genetic variants at 19 genomic regions associated with mosaic loss of the Y chromosome (mLOY) in blood. They further highlight a shared genetic architecture between mLOY and cancer susceptibility.

A low-frequency missense variant in ADCY7 doubles risk of ulcerative colitis. Researchers detect a burden of very rare, damaging missense variants in known Crohn's disease risk genes.

Poorer self-rated health (SRH) predicts worse health outcomes. Twin studies indicate SRH has a heritability of up to 60% and that its genetic architecture may overlap with that of personality and cognition. We carried out a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of SRH on 111 749 members of the UK Biobank sample.

Thomas Hoffmann, Neil Risch and colleagues use longitudinal electronic health records from almost 100,000 individuals to conduct genome-wide association studies. They find new significant loci that replicate in independent cohorts.

Individuals with lower socio-economic status (SES) are at increased risk of physical and mental illnesses and tend to die at an earlier age. It is possible that phenotypic associations between SES and health arise partly due to a shared genetic etiology. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on social deprivation and on household income using 112,151 participants of UK Biobank. We find that common SNPs explain 21% of the variation in social deprived and 11% of household income.

Pim van der Harst and colleagues report a genome-wide association study for resting heart rate in individuals of European ancestry. They identify 64 associated loci, 46 of which have not been previously reported. A genetic risk score constructed using the associated variants is significantly associated with increased mortality risk.

Eagle2 is a reference-based phasing algorithm that allows for highly accurate and efficient phasing of genotypes across a broad range of cohort sizes. They demonstrate an approximately 10% improvement in accuracy and 20% improvement on speed compared to a competing method.

Disrupted circadian rhythms and reduced sleep duration are associated with several human diseases, particularly obesity and type 2 diabetes. Until recently, little was known about the genetic factors influencing these heritable traits. We performed genome-wide association studies of self-reported chronotype and sleep duration in 128,266 white British individuals from the UK Biobank study.

Po-Ru Loh, Pier Francesco Palamara and Alkes Price develop a new long-range phasing method, Eagle. Eagle harnesses long, shared identical-by-descent tracts and can be applied to large outbred populations.

Jonathan Marchini and colleagues develop a new method for haplotype phasing, SHAPEIT3. They find that their method is fast and accurate, with a low switch error rate.

Recent genetic studies have identified some alleles associated with higher BMI but lower risk of type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and heart disease. These "favorable adiposity" alleles are collectively associated with lower insulin levels and higher subcutaneous-to-visceral adipose tissue ratio and may protect from disease through higher fat storage capacity.

Genome-wide association study for reproductive ability, behavior and success. Find 38 variants associated with age of first sexual intercourse. Both physical and neurobehavioral traits influence onset of reproductive activity.

UK Biobank recruited 502,682 U.K. residents aged 40-69 years. Nonwhite participants were two- to fourfold more likely to have diabetes. Obesity should be defined at lower thresholds in nonwhite populations.

10.7% of adults aged 40 to 69 had significant hearing impairment. Prevalence of tinnitus was 16.9% and hearing aid use was 2.0%. Odds of hearing impairment increased with age, with a history of work-related noise exposure.

Previous research has suggested that a substantial proportion of the population are severely affected by tinnitus. There is growing evidence that the perception of severity is closely related to personality factors such as neuroticism. In a subset of a large population sample of >500,000 adults aged 40 to 69years, we calculated the prevalence of tinn Titus.

The UK Biobank dataset provided the opportunity to determine new normative values for handgrip strength in men and women aged 39 to 73 years. These normative values take into consideration age, height, and measurement side.

Data-driven modeling of age progression has been conducted successfully in diverse applications such as face or brain aging. Age has important implications for health, and understanding how age manifests in the human body is the first step for a potential intervention.

Assortative mating (AM) is a pattern characterized by phenotypic similarities between mating partners. Detecting the evidence of AM has been challenging due to the lack of large-scale datasets. Gametic phase disequilibrium between trait-associated alleles is a signature of parental AM on a polygenic trait.

Risk stratification is critical for the early identification of high-risk individuals and disease prevention. Here we explored the potential of nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy-derived metabolomic profiles to inform on multidisease risk beyond conventional clinical predictors.

Exome-wide rare genetic variant association study for 30 blood biomarkers in 191,971 individuals in the UK Biobank. Genes associated with biomarkers were.&#x2009;~&#X2009;4.5-fold enriched for conferring Mendelian disorders. We introduce local collapsing by amino acid position for missense variants.

Study looked at 94 739 UK Biobank participants who had device-measured PA in 2013 to 2015. Overall incidence of HF was 98.5 per 10 000 person-years over a median 6.1 years of follow-up. Compared with participants who undertook no moderate- to vigorous-intensity PA, those who performed 150 to 300 min/wk of moderate- intensity PA (hazard ratio, 0.37 [95% CI,0.34-0.41]) were at lower HF risk.

Cancer-driving mutations might be enriched in genic subregions that are depleted of germline variation relative to somatic variation. We introduce a new metric, OncMTR (oncology missense tolerance ratio), which uses 125,748 exomes in the Genome Aggregation Database (gnomAD) to identify these genicsubregions. We demonstrate that OncmTR can significantly predict driver mutations implicated in hematologic malignancies.

Publicly available genome-wide association studies (GWAS) summary statistics exhibit uneven quality, which can impact the validity of follow-up analyses. We show that additional information such as imputation INFO scores, allele frequencies, and per-variant sample sizes in GWAS summary statistics can be used to detect possible issues and correct for misspecifications.

Cost-utility analysis was conducted using UK Biobank prospective cohort study participants. The optimal economic strategy was when intermediate risk individuals with a PRS in the top 70% are eligible for statins. At a $0 genotyping cost, PRS-guided strategies dominated standard care.

Napping was associated with a higher risk of essential hypertension, stroke, and ischemic stroke. Both the 1-sample and 2-sample MR results indicated that increased daytime napping frequency was likely to be a potential causal risk factor for essential hypertension in FinnGEN and UK Biobank.

BMI was cross-sectionally associated with risk of PsA and psoriasis. Genetically predicted glycated haemoglobin (surrogate for diabetes) increased PsA risk. Psoriatic disease is associated with increased CAD risk.

Insomnia is a heritable, highly prevalent sleep disorder for which no sufficient treatment currently exists. Previous genome-wide association studies with up to 1.3 million subjects identified over 200 associated loci. The current study almost doubled the sample size to 593,724 cases and 1,771,286 controls, thereby increasing statistical power.

Clonal hematopoiesis (CH) affects over a third of people, yet remains poorly understood. Here we analyze genetic data from 200,453 UK Biobank participants to map the landscape of inherited predisposition to CH.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) and major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) are the leading causes of death in the general population. CAD genetic risk scores (GRSs) predict risk independently from clinical tools, like QRISK3. We assessed the added value of GRSs for a variety of cardiovascular traits.

Population-based prospective cohort study (n=346 627) is based on the UK Biobank data. 13 869 participants died from all causes, 2650 from CVD and 4522 from PDAR cancers. Compared with quartile 1 (Q1, 0-210 min/week), Q2-Q4 of MVPA were associated with lower risks of all-cause and CVD mortality.

Study included 258 531 European descendants with hypertension at baseline from UK Biobank. Genetic risk of CHD and stroke was estimated using polygenic risk scores. Lifestyle scores were calculated based on 4 lifestyle components (no obesity, no current smoking, regular physical activity and healthy diet)

Study aimed to identify clinical, socio-demographic and genetic risk factors for severe COVID-19 (hospitalization, critical care admission or death) in the general population. Risk increased with age and obesity, and was higher in men, current smokers and those living in socio-economically deprived areas.

Pneumonia remains one of the leading causes of death worldwide. We use genome-wide meta-analysis of lifetime pneumonia diagnosis to identify four association signals. These signals support clinically tractable targets, including the mucin MUC5AC and tumour necrosis factor receptor superfamily member TNFRSF1A.

Study looked at associations of infertility, recurrent miscarriage, and stillbirth with the risk of first non-fatal and fatal stroke, further stratified by stroke subtypes. Infertility was associated with an increased risk of non-Fatal stroke (hazard ratio 1.14, 95% confidence interval 1.08 to 1.20) Recurrent miscarriage (at least three) was also associated with higher risk. The increased risk was mainly driven by a single stroke subtype.

Unipolar mania/hypomania (UM) characterised by a higher proportion of males, early chronotype, increased activity and shorter sleep duration. Both mood disorder groups had later chronotype preference, more disturbed sleep and increased difficulty getting up in the morning.

We identify two transdiagnostic genetic liabilities that distinguish between common forms of psychopathology versus rarer forms of serious mental illness. Biological annotation revealed divergent genetic architectures that differentially implicated prenatal neurodevelopment and neuronal function and regulation. These findings inform psychiatric nosology and biological models of psychopathologist.

It is critical to identify biomarkers for neurological diseases (NLDs) to accelerate drug discovery for effective treatment. We retrieved genotyping and clinical data from 1,223 UK Biobank participants to identify genetic and clinical biomarkers. We found evidence for shared genetic risk loci among NLDs.

We evaluated independent associations of cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR)-measured pericardial adipose tissue (PAT) with cardiovascular structure and function. We considered underlying mechanism in 42 598 UK Biobank participants. Higher PAT was associated with cardiometabolic disease (hypertension, diabetes, high cholesterol)

Measuring genetic diversity is an important problem. We define 21 distinct ancestry groups from all four corners of the world. These ancestry groups can serve as a global reference of worldwide populations.

Gene-SCOUT is a tool used to identify genes with similar continuous trait fingerprints to a gene of interest. A fingerprint reflects the continuous traits identified to be statistically associated with a gene. Similarities between genes are evaluated by the cosine similarity measure, to capture concordant effect directionality.

Proposed method first uses the 'nnU-Net' segmentation model to extract segmentations of the heart over the full cardiac cycle. Next, a multimodal deep learning classifier is used for CRT response prediction. This combines the latent spaces of the segmentation models of the two modalities.

Not many studies have directly compared vaccine effectiveness in the population. We analyse 235,181 UK Biobank participants aged 50 years or older and vaccinated with one or two doses of BNT162b2 or ChAdOx1. We find that, compared with one dose of ChAd Ox1, vaccination with BNT 162b2 is associated with a 28% (95% CI, 12-42) decreased risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection.

RAREsim efficiently simulates the expected variant distribution and enables real-variant annotations. We highlight RAREsim's utility across various genetic regions, sample sizes, ancestries, and variant classes.

Clinical features from electronic health records (EHRs) can be used to build a complementary tool to predict coronary artery disease (CAD) susceptibility. The EHR score reclassified 25.8% and 15.2% individuals in each cohort, compared with the PCE score.

Rupture of an intracranial aneurysm (IA) leads to ASAH, a severe type of stroke. Majority of genetic causes, as well as the biological mechanisms of IA development and rupture, remain unknown. We identified six rare and damaging variants for which all cases within one of the families were heterozygous.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified thousands of genetic variants linked to the risk of human disease. We combined whole-exome sequencing in 392,814 UK Biobank participants with imputed genotypes from 260,405 FinnGen participants to conduct association meta-analyses for 744 disease endpoints. We identified 975 associations, with more than one-third being previously unreported.

Previous genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of hematological traits have identified over 10 000 distinct trait-specific risk loci. At these loci, the underlying causal mechanisms remain incompletely characterized. To elucidate novel biology and better understand causal mechanisms, we performed a transcriptome-wide. association study (TWAS) in 399 835 UK Biobank (UKB) participants of European ancestry.

Study utilised UK Biobank linked to national SARS-CoV-2 laboratory test data. Of 401,910 individuals, 3612 were identified as having suffered from a severe COVID-19 infection and 11,264 (2.8%) from a non-severe infection, between 16 March 2020 and 16 March 2021.

Study aimed to investigate associations of serum calcium, phosphate, and vitamin D levels with the risk of developing aortic stenosis (AS) Included 296 415 participants who were free of prior diagnosis of any valvular heart disease from the UK Biobank.

There were 199,807 exome sequenced subjects for whom BMI was recorded. Weighted burden analysis of rare, functional variants was carried out. In MC4R, disruptive variants were associated with an increase in BMI of 2.72 units and probably damaging nonsynonymous variants with 2.02 units.

Osteoporosis was strongly associated with respiratory disease and COPD in both sexes. Compared with women, men had a higher risk of all-cause mortality, mortality from respiratory diseases including COPD and cancer incidence.

Small vessel disease is associated with age, mean blood pressure (MAP) and blood pressure pulsatility (PP) We used data from the UK Biobank cohort study to determine the relative importance of MAP versus PP driving white matter injury. The associations between blood pressure and diffusion indices in 27 major tracts were analysed.

Common polymorphic inversions underlie the shared genetic influence of these disorders. Inversions at 8p23.1, 16p11.2, and 11q13.2 were strongly associated with the co-occurrence of obesity with other common diseases. Transcriptome analysis across numerous tissues revealed strong candidate genes for obesity-related traits.

Study aimed to identify the hierarchy of demographic characteristics associated with the sedentary behaviours of television viewing, recreational computer use and driving. Age, sex, race, college attendance, employment, shift-work, urban versus rural residence as well as physical activity were considered as predictors.

Lower grip strength was associated with a higher risk of T2DM in both sexes. The associations were stronger when grip strength is expressed relative to body weight, which could reflect the importance of muscle quality.

LDpred is a popular method for deriving polygenic scores based on summary statistics and a matrix of correlation between genetic variants. LDpred has limitations that may reduce its predictive performance. We present LDpred2, a new version of LDpred that addresses these issues.

Macrothrombocytopenia is a heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by enlarged and reduced numbers of circulating platelets. In most MTP, this phenotype arises because of altered regulation of platelet formation from megakaryocytes. We report the identification of DIAPH1, which encodes the Rho-effector diaphanous-related formin 1, as a candidate gene for MTP.

Analysis included 12&#x2009;364 adults aged 55-73 years from the UK Biobank cohort. Incident dementia was ascertained using hospital inpatient, death records and self-reported data. Diabetes, heart disease, stroke and depression at baseline were all associated with an increased risk of dementia.

Rare variants are collectively numerous and may underlie a considerable proportion of complex disease risk. Identifying genuine rare variant associations is challenging due to small effect sizes, presence of technical artefacts, and heterogeneity in population structure. We hypothesize that rare variant burden over a large number of genes can be combined into a predictive rare variant genetic risk score (RVGRS)

Microglia are the primary innate immune cells in the brain. Changes in immune function are associated with variance in cognitive functioning in schizophrenia. Increased microglial schizophrenia polygenic risk was associated with significantly lower performance across several measures of cognitive functioning.

Premorbid body mass index, physical activity, diabetes and cardiovascular disease have been associated with an altered risk of developing amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) There is evidence of shared genetic risk between ALS and lipid metabolism.

Dietary intake is a major contributor to the global obesity epidemic. It represents a complex behavioural phenotype that is partially affected by innate biological differences. We present a multivariate genome-wide association analysis of overall variation in dietary intake to account for the correlation between dietary carbohydrate, fat and protein.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) are able to stratify individuals based on their genetic risk of developing various common diseases. PRSs could potentially be used to optimize the use of screening and preventative treatments and improve personalized care. Many challenges are yet to be overcome, including PRS validation, healthcare professional and patient education, and healthcare systems integration.

Lp(a) levels are higher in individuals of African ancestry (AA) than in people of European ancestry (EA) Lp was associated with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease in four major arterial beds in EA but only with peripheral artery disease and abdominal aortic aneurysm in AA. Novel associations were detected in EA.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is associated with increased localized and generalized bone loss. The complex genetic mechanism between them is still unknown. Linkage disequilibrium score regression reveals a shared genetic correlation between RA and estimated bone mineral density (eBMD)

Dyslexia is a common heritable developmental disorder involving impaired reading abilities. Its genetic underpinnings are thought to be complex and heterogeneous, involving common and rare genetic variation. We identified a locus on chromosome 7q21.11 which cosegregated with dyslexia status, with the exception of two cases of phenocopy.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) and ventricular arrhythmia (Arr) are among the most common and fatal cardiac arrhythmias in the world. Electrocardiogram data, collected as part of the UK Biobank, represents an opportunity for analysis and classification of these two diseases in the UK.

Osteoclasts are large multinucleated bone-resorbing cells formed by the fusion of monocyte/macrophage-derived precursors. Inhibiting RANKL blocked this cellular recycling and resulted in osteomorph accumulation.

Daytime napping is a common, heritable behavior, but its genetic basis and causal relationship with cardiometabolic health remain unclear. We perform a genome-wide association study of self-reported daytime napping in the UK Biobank. Findings include missense variants in established drug targets for sleep disorders and genes suggesting an obesity-hypersomnolence pathway.

Despite considerable progress on pathogenicity scores prioritizing variants for Mendelian disease, little is known about the utility of these scores for common disease. Here, we assess the informativeness of Mendelians disease-derived pathogenicicity scores forCommon disease and improve upon existing scores. We then develop AnnotBoost, a machine learning framework to impute and denoise pathogenity scores.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) use the results of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) to predict quantitative phenotypes or disease risk at an individual level. A major barrier to the use of PRS is that the majority of GWAS come from cohorts of European ancestry. The predictive power ofPRS constructed from these studies is substantially lower in non-European ancestry cohorts.

Calcific aortic valve stenosis (CAVS) is a frequent heart disease with significant morbidity and mortality. Recent genomic studies have identified a locus near the gene PALMD (palmdelphin) strongly associated with CAVS. Here, we show that genetically-determined expression of PALMD in the aorta is inversely associated withCAVS, with a stronger effect in women.

Corneal hysteresis and corneal resistance factor are parameters that reflect the dynamic biomechanical properties of the cornea. In this genome-wide association study of over 100 000 participants, we identified over 200 genetic loci, all but eight novel, significantly associated with either of these traits.

The timing of puberty is highly variable and is associated with long-term health outcomes. To date, understanding of the genetic control of puberty timing is based largely on studies in women. We find moderately strong genomic correlation in puberty timing between sexes.

In recent years, deep learning has become more widespread in the fields of cognitive and clinical neuroimaging. Using deep neural network models is an efficient method to classify brain disorders and identify individuals who are at increased risk of age-related cognitive decline and neurodegenerative disease.

Heart failure is a major public health problem affecting over 23 million people worldwide. Heart failure sub-phenotyping shows that a new locus in chromosome 1 is associated with left ventricular adverse remodeling and clinical heart failure.

ScSplit is a tool to demultiplex pooled samples in a single cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) experiment. We show that scSplit prediction is highly concordant with demuxlet predictions. It is ideally suited to samples without external genotype information.

Growing evidence suggests that inflammation is a significant contributor to different cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) Mendelian randomization was performed to assess the causal inference between plasma soluble IL6 receptor (sIL6R) and different cardiovascular and immune-related disorders. Genetically-determined reduced IL6 signaling lowers the risk of multiple CVDs and is associated with increased longevity.

Modern societies are experiencing an epidemic of loneliness. Loneliness is more strongly associated with mortality than obesity. Although circumstantial factors such as marital status and age influence loneliness, there is evidence of a genetic predisposition toward loneliness.

Short and long sleep duration have been linked with poorer cognitive outcomes. It remains unclear whether these associations are causal. We conducted the first Mendelian randomization (MR) study with 77 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for sleep duration.

Hand preference is a prominent behavioural trait linked to human brain asymmetry. A handful of genetic variants have been reported to associate with hand preference or quantitative measures related to it. Here we performed a genome-wide association analysis of hand preference in the UK Biobank cohort. We found no evidence supporting any of the previously suggested variants or genes.

A growing number of studies clearly demonstrate a substantial association between chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and cardiovascular diseases (CVD) Little is known about the shared genetics that contribute to this association. We conducted a large-scale cross-trait genome-wide association study.

Cross-trait penalized regression (CTPR) is a powerful and practical approach for polygenic risk prediction in large cohorts. We illustrate our method using large-scale GWAS data (~1M SNPs) from the UK Biobank. We show that our method outperforms the recently proposed multi-Trait analysis of GWAS (MTAG) for predictive performance. The prediction accuracy for height by the aid of BMI improves from R2&#x2009;=&# x2009;35.8% to 42.5% (MCP&#X2009;+&# X2009;CTPR).

Identifying genetic variants with effects on trait variability can provide insights into the biological mechanisms that control variation. We propose a two-degree-of-freedom test for jointly testing mean and variance effects to identify such variants. We apply our approach to body mass index in the subsample of the UK Biobank population with British ancestry (n ~408,000)

Diverticular disease is common and has a high morbidity. Treatments are limited owing to the poor understanding of its pathophysiology. We identified 42 loci associated with diverticular disease; 39 of these loci are novel. Genes in associated loci have roles in immunity, extracellular matrix biology, cell adhesion, membrane transport and intestinal motility.

Higher educational attainment (EA) is negatively associated with schizophrenia (SZ) However, recent studies found a positive genetic correlation between EA and SZ. Using EA as a proxy phenotype, we isolate FOXO6 and SLITRK1 as novel candidate genes for Sz.

The Asp358Ala variant in the interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R) gene has been implicated in asthma, autoimmune and cardiovascular disorders. Its role in other respiratory conditions such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) has not been investigated. In vitro studies using blood samples from 37 participants, we found that shedding of sIL- 6R from neutrophils was greater in carriers of the Asp 358Ala minor allele than in non-carriers.

COPD is the third leading cause of death worldwide. Smoking is the main risk factor for COPD, but genetic factors are also relevant contributors. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of lung function measures used in the diagnosis of COPD have identified a number of loci.

A 2007 World Health Organization review concluded that shift work involving circadian disruption is probably carcinogenic to humans. We aimed to generate prospective epidemiological evidence on night shift work and breast cancer incidence. Overall, 522 246 Million Women Study, 22 559 EPIC-Oxford, and 251 045 UK Biobank participants answered questions on shift work.

Study of UK Biobank participants recruited from 2006 to 2010. Myopia and high myopia were defined as autorefraction of -0.75 diopters (D) or less. Risk for myopia became progressively lower for later birth orders.

Heritability in the immune tumor microenvironment (iTME) has been widely observed yet remains largely uncharacterized. Here, we developed a machine learning approach to map iTME modifiers within loci from genome-wide association studies (GWASs) for breast cancer (BrCa) incidence.

Patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 3 (PNPLA3) I148M polymorphism and alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) E342K variant, termed PiZ, are major modifiers of metabolic CLD. Both variants are known to affect metabolicCLD through increased endoplasmic reticulum stress but their combined effect on CLD progression remains largely unknown.

The sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs) are transcription factors that govern cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism. We recently identified SPRING as a post-transcriptional regulator of SREBP activation. Constitutive or inducible global ablation of Spring in mice is not tolerated.

Genome-wide association studies have identified multiple Alzheimer's disease risk loci with small effect sizes. Polygenic risk scores, which aggregate these variants, are associated with grey matter structural changes. Pathway-specific profiling could further define pathophysiology in individuals, moving towards precision medicine in Alzheimer's.

Principal component analysis (PCA) is widely used in statistics, machine learning, and genomics for dimensionality reduction and uncovering low-dimensional latent structure. To address the challenges posed by ever-growing data size, fast and memory-efficient PCA methods have gained prominence.

Shift work has become an increasingly common work mode globally. This study aimed to investigate the association between shift work and the risk of incident gastroesophageal reflux disease (GORD)

Mid/late-life cognitive activities are associated with a lower rate of subsequent cognitive decline and lower subsequent dementia risk over time. In this study, we found that participation in adult education classes preceded greater retention of subsequent fluid intelligence. This association did not change after adjusting for cognitive function at baseline or genetic predisposition to dementia.

Previous evidence has mainly supported transient changes in cardiac function during interictal or peri-ictal phases in people with epilepsy. This study aimed to assess the long-term association of epilepsy with cardiac arrhythmias. It also considered the potential role of genetic predisposition and antiseizure medications (ASMs)

Copy number variants (CNVs) are major contributors to genetic diversity and disease. Technical challenges have confounded uniform large-scale CNV analyses from whole-exome sequencing (WES) data. GATK-gCNV is a flexible algorithm to discover rare CNVs from sequencing read-depth information.

The American Heart Association recently updated Life's Essential 8 (LE8) score. This amalgamation of health factors provides a robust tool to assess overall cardiovascular health. Study aimed to investigate the association between levels of CVH, as measured by the LE8 score, and risk of CKD.

Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been widely used to identify brain regions linked to critical functions, such as language and vision. Large sample sizes are necessary for fMRI studies to detect small effect sizes and produce reproducible results.

Parallels have been drawn to median nerve decompression for carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) 2 previous studies have demonstrated an association between migraine and CTS. This study replicates past reports of an epidemiologic association between CTS and migraine, albeit in women only. This association is underpinned by a genetic correlation, with shared genetic susceptibility at the TRIM32 locus.

Autoimmune diseases are more common among people with unhealthy sleep behaviors. These conditions have been linked to aging-related bone health. Few studies examined the correlation between recently developed sleep patterns based on sleep duration, sleepiness, chronotype, snoring, insomnia, and the incidence of falls and fractures.

Study included 277,057 individuals free of CVDs or cancer at baseline in the UK Biobank. Genetic scores of plasma cystatin C comprising 67 single-nucleotide polymorphisms were calculated on the basis of data from a large genome-wide association study.

The genetic correlation is a well-known means of quantifying and testing for genetic similarity between traits. This makes it unsuitable for use in a small-sample context. We discuss the use of a nonparametric test of genetic similarity for application to GWAS summary statistics.

Brain imaging-derived phenotypes (IDPs) are critical markers for early diagnosis of both brain disorders and cardiovascular diseases. However, it remains unclear about the shared genetic landscape between brain IDPs and the risk of brain disorders. Here, we reported genetic correlations and putative causal relationships between 921 brain IDP, 20 brain disorders, and six cardiovascular diseases in a large-scale genome-wide association study.

The human brain is generally anatomically symmetrical, boasting mirror-like brain regions in the left and right hemispheres. Despite this symmetry, fine-scale structural asymmetries are prevalent and are believed to be responsible for distinct functional divisions within the brain. Prior studies propose these asymmetric structures are predominantly primate specific or even unique to humans.

It remains unclear whether inflammatory bowel disease is associated with long-term risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and acute kidney injury (AKI) in the general population. A total of 417,302 participants, including 2,940 patients with ulcerative colitis and 1,261 patients with Crohn's disease, without previous CKD and AKI at baseline (2006-2010) were included.

Sleep disturbance is an increasingly recognized non-motor trait in dystonia. We examined sleep in a UK Biobank derived Dystonia cohort using subjective self-reported sleep symptoms and objective accelerometer-derived sleep measures.

Chronic pain affects nearly 20% of the U.S. population. It is a leading cause of disability globally and is associated with a heightened risk for suicide. Specific brain circuitries involved have yet to be mapped across pain types.

Genome-wide association studies have identified numerous risk loci for venous thromboembolism. We employed an integrative analytical pipeline to transform genetic associations to identify novel plasma proteins for VTE. PLEK, SERPINA1, and SERPINE2 are compelling proteins that may provide key hints for future research.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases. The AD mechanism has not yet been fully elucidated to date, hindering the development of effective therapies. This study connects genetics, molecular and cellular signatures, regional brain morphologic endophenotypes, and AD diagnosis. The findings can provide valuable guidance for subsequent therapeutic target identification and drug discovery in AD.

Population screening for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) remains an unaddressed clinical need. We aimed to assess the utility of the fatty liver index (FLI) for risk stratification of NAFLD and related comorbidities using the UK Biobank. Intermediate and high-risk FLI was associated with increased cardiometabolic and malignant disease.

We identified 63 AMD risk loci alongside the well-established AMD loci CFH and ARMS2, including 9 loci that were not reported in previous GWASs. A new PRS was constructed using the PRS method, PRS-CS, and significantly improved the prediction accuracy of AMD risk. The PRS shows potential for predicting risk in people of East Asian, South Asian and Latino ancestry.

Branch-chain amino acids (BCAAs) are linked to higher risk of diabetes. Valine metabolite, 3-hydroxyisobutyrate (3-HIB), also plays an important role in metabolism. We assessed the role of BCAAs and 3-Hib in IHD and diabetes using Mendelian randomization to minimize confounding. We also examined sex-specific associations.

Many regions in the human genome vary in length among individuals due to variable numbers of tandem repeats (VNTRs) We applied a statistical imputation approach to estimate the lengths of 9,561 autosomal VNTR loci in 418,136 unrelated UK Biobank participants and 838 GTEx participants.

Red wine and dairy products have been staples in human diets for a long period. However, the impact on brain network activity remains ambiguous. This study investigated the associations between dairy and red wine consumption and seven neural networks' connectivity.

Germ line variants in the DDX41 gene have been linked to myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) development. The risks associated with different variants remain unknown, as do the basis of their leukemogenic properties and impact on steady-state hematopoiesis.

Biallelic PKD1 variants, including hypomorphic variants, can cause very early onset polycystic kidney disease (VEO-PKD) A family with unexplained recurrent VEO- PKD and neonatal demise in one dizygotic twin was referred for clinical testing. Further individuals with the putative hypomorphicPKD1 variant, p.(Ile3167Phe), were identified from the UK 100,000 genomes project.

Habitual use of calcium supplements was significantly associated with higher risk of CVD events and mortality in people with diabetes. No significant association was observed in participants without diabetes.

Objectively measured physical activity (PA) data were collected in the accelerometry substudy of the UK Biobank. Data also contains information about multiple sclerosis (MS) diagnosis at the time of and after PA collection. Study aimed to quantify the difference in PA between prevalent MS cases and matched healthy controls.

The effective size of a population (Ne) in the recent past can be estimated through analysis of identity-by-descent (IBD) segments. Several methods have been developed for estimating Ne from autosomal IBD segments, but no such effort has been made with X chromosomes. We show how to use the estimated autosome Ne and X chromosome Ne to estimate the female and male effective population sizes.

Stroke is a significant health issue in the United States. This study aims to identify circulating metabolite signatures that may be associated with stroke pathophysiology by performing discovery and validation studies.

Daily mobile phone use is significantly associated with a reduced risk of incident dementia in community-dwelling adults in the UK Biobank population. This association seems to be mediated by improved social and mental activities.

Low socioeconomic status (SES) is associated with cardiovascular risk factors and increased coronary artery disease (CAD) risk. We tested whether SES is an effect modifier of the association between classical cardiovascularrisk factors and CAD using SES-stratified Mendelian Randomization in European-ancestry participants.

Alcohol misuse (AM) is highly prevalent and harmful, with theorized subgroups differing on internalizing and externalizing dimensions. Despite known heterogeneity, genome-wide association studies are usually conducted on unidimensional phenotypes. This study aimed to address phenotypic heterogeneity in GWAS to aid gene finding and to uncover the etiology of different types of AM.

Study included 498,200 participants from UK Biobank (2006-2021) During a median follow-up of 12.49 years, 2,477 deaths due to respiratory diseases were recorded. Short sleep duration associated with 14% higher risk of total respiratory diseases mortality. Long sleep duration was associated with 35% higher rate of respiratory diseases deaths.

IT workers have occupational health risks of sedentary behaviour, physical inactivity and poor diet. Yet studies of their non-communicable disease risk, notably cancer, are lacking.

The human skeletal form underlies bipedalism, but the genetic basis of skeletal proportions (SPs) is not well characterized. We applied deep-learning models to 31,221 x-rays from the UK Biobank to extract a comprehensive set of SPs, which were associated with 145 independent loci genome-wide.

UK Biobank is a prospective study of adults aged 40-69 in 2006-2010. 3,815 incident cases of CHD occurred during a median follow-up of 11.8 years. CHD risk was positively associated with saturated fatty acids and monounsaturated fatty acids. Inversely associated with omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA)

Recent work within neuroimaging consortia has aimed to identify reproducible brain signatures of psychiatric or neurological conditions. To allow for high-powered brain imaging analyses, it is often necessary to pool MR images that were acquired with different protocols across multiple scanners. Current retrospective harmonization techniques have shown promise in removing site-related image variation.

Sustainable cognitive health is heavily influenced by cognitive reserve (CR) CR delays cognitive decline or reduces its severity by enhancing cognitive function through life experiences. This study explored whether CR moderates the relationship between white matter integrity and cognitive function in cognitively intact older adults.

UK Biobank recruited 84,166 men and women (aged 40-69) for an average of 6.4 years. Survival rates differed by PA volume quartile, with poorer outcomes for the lowest PA volumes. Participants with more sedentary to light intensity PA ( 250 mg) than average for a given volume of PA, had higher mortality rates.

Habitual use of fish oil was assessed by repeated questionnaires. Cox proportional hazard models were applied to calculate hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) Over a median follow-up of 11.6 years, 4304 and 3294 CHD cases were documented among 47,663 individuals with prediabetes and 22,146 patients with diabetes.

The trait of participating in a genetic study probably has a genetic component. Identifying this component is difficult as we cannot compare genetic information of participants with nonparticipants directly. Taking participation behaviour into account would improve the analyses of the study data, including those of health traits.

Excess weight and colorectal cancer (CRC) risk may have been underestimated due to potential weight loss during pre-clinical sojourn time of CRC. We aimed to investigate this association and the corresponding population attributable fraction (PAF), accounting for prediagnostic weight loss.

Cerebral microbleeds (CMBs) are associated with white matter damage, and various neurodegenerative and cerebrovascular diseases. Accurate automated detection of CMBs would help to determine quantitative imaging biomarkers (e.g., CMB count) on large datasets.

QRISK3 had moderate overall discrimination in UK Biobank, which was best in younger participants. The observed CVD risk was lower than that predicted by QRISk3, particularly for older participants.

Polygenic scores (PGSs) are individual-level measures that aggregate the genome-wide genetic predisposition to a given trait. PGS have predominantly been developed using European-ancestry samples. We investigate the effect of sample size and ancestry composition on PGS performance.

This study aimed to investigate the association between the Life's Essential 8 (LE8) score and incident all-cause dementia in UK Biobank. Smoking, non-HDL cholesterol, blood pressure, body mass index, HbA1c, physical activity, diet, and sleep were used to create the score. Over a median follow-up of 10.6 years, 4958 participants were diagnosed with dementia.

A GT(n) repeat length in the heme oxygenase 1 gene (HMOX1) has been widely associated with a variety of phenotypes, including susceptibility to and outcomes in diabetes, cancer, infections, and neonatal jaundice. However, studies have generally been small and results inconsistent. Despite high-quality imputation, clinical associations were not identified.

Growing evidence suggests that individuals with anxiety disorder have an elevated risk of cardiovascular disease. Few studies have assessed this association independently of or jointly with depression. Diagnoses of anxiety disorder, depression, and CVDs were ascertained through linked hospital admission and mortality data.

Higher cardiorespiratory fitness is associated with lower risk of type 2 diabetes. However, the causality of this relationship and the biological mechanisms that underlie it are unclear. Here, we examine genetic determinants of fitness in 450k European-ancestry individuals in UK Biobank.

Sleep health is assumed to be a key determinant of future morbidity and mortality. Little is known about brain structural abnormalities underlying this association. To our knowledge, this is the largest study to test associations between sleep health and grey matter volume.

 Reduced lung function is common and associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Previous studies have identified relationships between lung function and cardiovascular structure in individuals with pulmonary disease. But the relationships in those free from diagnosed cardiorespiratory disease have not been fully explored.

A polygenic risk score (PRS) derived from 112 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for gastric cancer has been reported in Chinese populations. However, its performance in other populations is unknown. A functional PRS using functional SNPs may improve the generalizability of the PRS across populations with distinct ethnicities.

Non-linear Mendelian randomization is an extension to Mendel's randomization. It explores the shape of the causal relationship between an exposure and outcome using an instrumental variable. The standard implementation of stratification relies on strong parametric assumptions of linearity and homogeneity.

ShAPEIT5 is a new phasing method that quickly and accurately processes large sequencing datasets. We apply it to UK Biobank whole-genome and whole-exome sequencing data. We identify 549 genes where both gene copies are knocked out. These genes complement current knowledge of gene essentiality in the human genome.

A total of 18 509 participants diagnosed with diabetes from the UK Biobank were included. During a mean follow-up of 10.7 years, 3247 total CVD incidents were documented, including 2771 coronary heart disease and 701 strokes.

People have a circadian preference termed chronotype. Those with an evening preference may be better suited to shift work, but also carry higher risk of adverse health. Shift work leads to misalignment of circadian rhythms and is associated with increased risk of inflammatory disease.

Helicobacter pylori causes chronic gastritis and increases the risk of gastroduodenal ulcer and gastric cancer. Chronic colonization triggers aberrant epithelial and inflammatory signals that are also associated with systemic alterations.

We explored cardiovascular disease biomarkers, events, and mortality in the UK Biobank stratified by BMI and diabetes. Overweight/obesity was associated with higher CIMT, arterial stiffness, and CCI and lower LVEF. Normal-weight diabetes had comparable adjusted cardiovascular mortality to obese nondiabetes.

The association between long-term joint exposure to all kinds of ambient air pollutants and the risk of mortality is not known. Our study prospectively assessed the joint associations of various air pollutants with cause-specific and all-cause mortality risk. A total of 400,259 individuals aged 40-70 years were included in this study.

Previous studies have reported genetic overlap between psychiatric disorders and population-level mental health. Here, we map the genetic associations between self-reported mental health and resting-state fMRI-based measures of brain network function. The findings provide further genetic evidence of an association between brain function and mental health traits in the population.

Complications of coronary artery disease (CAD) represent the leading cause of death among adults globally. This study examined the associations and clinical utilities of genetic, sociodemographic, lifestyle, and clinical risk factors on CAD recurrence.

No previous study has examined the impact of air pollution on the cardiovascular disease (CVD) trajectory, especially among asthmatic subjects. Based on the UK Biobank cohort, we retrieved 292,227 adults free of asthma and CVD aged 37-73 years at recruitment (2006-2010) Annual mean concentrations of particulate matter (PM 10 and PM 2.5 ) and nitrogen oxides (NO 2  and NO x ) were assessed at each individual's addresses.

In this study we examined how genetic risk for asthma associates with different features of the disease and with other medical conditions and traits. We identified 228 total significant associations across a variety of organ systems. Our results highlight pervasive pleiotropy between asthma and numerous other traits and conditions.

Liver fibrosis showed significant associations with cognitive performance in reasoning, working memory, visual memory, prospective memory, executive function, and processing speed. CRP levels were significantly higher in adults with advanced liver fibrosis than those without, indicating an elevated systemic inflammation.

The cardioprotective diet has been previously reported to be inversely associated with the development of inflammatory bowel disease. Whether it is beneficial to improve adverse outcomes in IBD remains unknown. We conducted a prospective cohort study of 5549 participants with IBD from the UK Biobank. Compared with participants with the lowest adherence to the cardiop rotective diet, those with the highest score had a lower risk of enterotomy.

CyC, a secreted cysteine protease inhibitor, has unclear biological functions. Many patients exhibit elevated plasma CyC levels, particularly during glucocorticoid (GC) treatment. GC receptor directly targets CyC, leading to GC-responsive CyC secretion in macrophages and cancer cells.

 Hyper-secretion and/or hyper-concentration of mucus is a defining feature of multiple obstructive lung diseases, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) Mucus itself is composed of a mixture of water, ions, salt and proteins, of which the gel-forming mucins, MUC5AC and M UC5B, are the most abundant. Recent studies have linked the concentrations of these proteins in sputum to COPD phenotypes.

Parkinson's disease has a large heritable component and genome-wide association studies have identified over 90 variants with disease-associated common variants. However, there have not been large-scale rare variant analyses for Parkinson's disease. To address this gap, we investigated the rare genetic component of the disease at minor allele frequencies.

AutoPrognosis 2.0 is an open-source machine learning framework for developing diagnostic and prognostic models. It leverages state-of-the-art advances in automated machine learning to develop optimized machine learning pipelines. The models produced by our automated framework achieve greater discrimination for diabetes than expert clinical risk scores.

Cox regression has remained one of the most popular statistical models for the analysis of survival data to-date. We propose Cox regression subsampling-based estimators that approximate their full-data partial-likelihood-based counterparts. The suggested methodology is applied on the UK-biobank for building a colorectal cancer risk-prediction model.

Energy harvesting from human motion can reduce reliance on battery recharging in wearable Internet of Things (IoT) devices. To date, studies estimating energy harvesting potential have largely focused on small scale, healthy, population groups in laboratory settings. This article presents detailed stratification into how the day of the week and participant age affect harvesting potential.

Previous studies have shown that dietary patterns are associated with the incidence of depressive symptoms. This study aimed to investigate the association between dietary patterns and depressive symptoms in two large cohort studies. The Tianjin Chronic Low-grade Systemic Inflammation and Health cohort study included a total of 7,094 participants living in Tianjin, China from 2013 to 2019. The UK Biobank cohort study includes 96,810 participants who were recruited from 22 assessment centers across the UK between 2006 and 2010.

We conduct the pan-cancer and cross-population genome-wide association study (GWAS) meta-analysis and replication studies on 13 cancers. We identify ten cancer risk variants including five pleiotropic associations. Quantifying shared heritability among the cancers detects positive genetic correlations between breast and prostate cancer across populations.

Cross-sectional analysis of data from subjects enrolled in the UK Biobank cohort. More men and smokers reported psoriasis and were older, had higher weight and body mass index, and lower pulmonary function.

Study used data from 17 840 cancer-free postmenopausal women. High estimated CRF (eCRF) was categorised as being >80th percentile. Over a median follow-up of 11.0 years there were 529 cases of invasive breast cancer.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a severe public health issue in the world. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) offers a way to study brain differences between AD patients and healthy individuals. In most previous works, the extracted features were not aimed to be causal, hindering biological understanding and interpretation. We propose using instrumental variable (IV) regression with genetic variants as IVs.

Accumulating evidence has reported the associations of coffee consumption with physical conditions and mortality, but the associations with mental disorders were limited. In this prospective cohort study, we utilized data from the UK Biobank and included a total of 146,566 participants who completed the touchscreen questionnaire between 2006 and 2010. We found J-shaped associations between coffee consumption and both incident depression and anxiety.

The ability to accurately predict whether a woman will develop breast cancer later in her life, should reduce the number of breast cancer deaths. Different predictive models exist for breast cancer based on family history, BRCA status, and SNP analysis. The best of these models has an accuracy (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, AUC) of about 0.65.

Evidence for the effects of dietary fiber on adverse outcomes in individuals with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is insufficient and controversial. We aimed to explore the association between dietary fiber intake and the risk of IBD-related surgery. We identified 5580 individuals with diagnosed IBD at baseline in the UK Biobank.

Age-related cognitive decline is a global phenomenon that affects individuals worldwide. The course and extent of this decline are influenced by numerous factors, such as genetics, lifestyle, education, and cognitive engagement. Theory of brain and cognitive reserve/maintenance posits that these factors have a significant impact on the degree of cognitive decline.

In this study, we adopted individual baseline data from the UK Biobank cohort of participants aged 40-69 across the UK. First, we used multilevel models to decompose the variation in body mass index (BMI) values. Next, we looked at whether key predictors of obesity differ across 6 cities in England by using a machine learning approach.

This is the first study to use the UK Biobank database to test whether participants of a low socioeconomic position are less likely to drink, but more likely to suffer alcohol-related harm. The database contains health-related information from 500,000 UK residents that were recruited aged 40-69 between 2006 and 2010.

 Muscle strength is highly heritable and predictive for multiple adverse health outcomes including mortality. We show that the exome-wide burden of rare protein-truncating and damaging missense variants is associated with a reduction in hand grip strength. We identify shared mechanisms between brain and muscle function and uncover additive effects between rare and common genetic variation.

A healthy lifestyle is the cornerstone of management in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) However, the associations between dietary macronutrient composition and different aspects of NAFLD pathology are unclear. This work aimed to evaluate the associations of dietary macronsutrients with hepatic steatosis, hepatic fibroinflammation, and NAFLd.

Cerebral small vessel disease is a major cause of stroke and dementia. Metabolomics can help identify novel risk factors to better understand pathogenesis and predict disease progression and severity.

H. pylori has been associated with decreased cognitive function and dementia. We used data from the UK Biobank to further examine associations between H. plyori seropositivity and serointensity and performance on several cognitive tasks in adults 40 to 70 years of age.

Few studies have examined the relationship between vitamin D and the risk of recurrent cardiovascular (CV) events in people with coronary heart disease (CHD) This study aimed to investigate the associations of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) concentration and the vitamin D receptor (VDR) polymorphisms.

30 min/day of moderate-intensity physical activity is suggested for preventing type 2 diabetes (T2D) The current recommendations exclusively rely on self-reports and rarely consider the genetic risk. We examined the prospective dose-response relationships between total/intensity-specific physical activity and incident T2D accounting for and stratified by different levels of genetic risk in the UK Biobank.

Lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)) is a largely genetically determined biomarker for cardiovascular disease (CVD) Its potential interplay with family history (FHx) of CVD, a measure of both genetic and environmental exposures, remains unclear. We examined the associations of Lp( a) in terms of circulating concentration or polygenetic risk score (PRS), and FHx of Cvd with risk of incident heart failure (HF)

Early rhythm control reduces cardiovascular events in patients with recently diagnosed atrial fibrillation (AF) compared with usual care. How genetic predisposition to AF and stroke interacts with early rhythm-control therapy is not known.

The 16p11.2 and 22q11. 2 copy number variants (CNVs) are associated with neurobehavioral traits including ASD, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, obesity, and intellectual disability. Identifying specific genes contributing to each disorder has been difficult, inspiring hypotheses of more complex models, such as multiple genes acting together.

Efforts to predict trait phenotypes based on functional MRI data from large cohorts have been hampered by low prediction accuracy and/or small effect sizes. We aim to replicate previous work and test multiple data manipulations that may improve prediction accuracy by addressing data pollution challenges.

Clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) is frequent in aging. Risk factors that contribute to CHIP are poorly understood. Obesity induces a proinflammatory state and fatty bone marrow, which may influence CHIP-associated pathologies.

Study looked at 499 341 participants without VHD at baseline. Assessment of lifestyle included smoking, alcohol consumption, diet, activity, and sleep. Genetic susceptibility was separately measured by polygenic risk scores (PRSs) and family history of cardiovascular disease (CVD)

Mendelian randomization (MR) is an increasingly popular approach to estimating causal effects. Although the assumptions underlying MR cannot be verified, they imply certain constraints, the instrumental inequalities, which can be used to falsify the MR conditions. The instrumental inequalities are rarely applied in MR. We aimed to explore whether they could detect violations of MR conditions in case studies.

Metabolic syndrome has been linked to an increased risk of colorectal cancer (CRC) incidence and mortality. Whether adopting a healthy lifestyle could attenuate the risk of CRC conferred by metabolic syndrome remains unclear. The aim of the study is to investigate the individual and joint effects of modifiable healthy lifestyle and metabolic health status.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified thousands of genetic variants associated with human traits or diseases. Much of the heritability of many traits is still unaccounted for. Multi-trait methods improve statistical power by integrating association evidence across multiple traits.

The SWIF(r) reliability score (SRS) reflects the trustworthiness of the classification of a specific instance. The concept of the reliability score has the potential to generalize to other machine learning methods. We explore these applications of the SRS using a range of biological datasets.

High-grade gliomas account for 60-75% of all adult glioma. The complexity of treatment, recovery and survivorship creates a need for novel monitoring approaches. Digital wearable tools could help us address unmet needs.

Mendelian randomization confirmed multiple risk factors for primary events of coronary artery disease (CAD) No such studies have been performed on recurrent major coronary events despite interesting insights derived from other designs. We examined the associations between genetically-influenced classical cardiovascular risk factors.

Genome-wide association studies have identified thousands of variants for disease risk. Of particular interest are admixed populations, usually defined as populations with recent ancestry from two or more continental sources. Admixed genomes contain segments of distinct ancestries that vary in composition across individuals in the population.

Study looked at associations of environmental and genetic factors with the risk of sporadic early-onset colorectal cancer (EOCRC) Study found 12 risk factors and three protective factors. No significant associations between the examined genetic variants and EOCRC risk.

Study aims to examine associations between midlife Life's Simple 7 (LS7) status, psychosocial health (social isolation and loneliness), and late-life multidimensional frailty indicators. We used cohort data from the UK Biobank. Frailty was assessed using physical frailty phenotype, hospital frailty risk score, and frailty index. A better LS7 score in midlife was associated with a reduced risk of physical, hospital and comprehensive frailty.

It remains unknown to what extent gene-gene interactions contribute to complex traits. Here, we introduce a new approach using predicted gene expression to perform exhaustive transcriptome-wide interaction studies (TWISs) for multiple traits.

Mendelian randomization analysis-identified HMGCR and PCSK9 genetic variants were used to predict the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol-lowering effects of medications targeting related molecules. Summary-level MRs using an inverse variance weighted method and pleiotropy-robust methods were performed. Genetically predicted HMG-CoA reductase inhibition was associated with low eGFR.

Telomere length has been linked to various health outcomes. We conducted a phenome-wide Mendelian randomization study (MR-PheWAS) and a systematic review of MR studies. Of the 1 035 phenotypes tested, PheWas identified 29 and 78 associations of telomerelength GRS at a Bonferroni- and false discovery rate-corrected threshold.

Glaucoma is a progressive optic neuropathy and a leading cause of irreversible blindness. The etiology of this multifactorial disease is poorly understood. We aimed to identify plasma metabolites associated with the risk of developing POAG.

Aging has important effects on specific functional networks of the brain and leads to brain functional connectivity decline. No studies have addressed the effect of aging at the whole-brain level. The study was based on a large sample size of neuroimaging data including 6300 healthy adults aged between 49 and 73 years.

Mendelian randomization (MR) has emerged as a powerful approach to leverage genetic instruments to infer causality between pairs of traits in observational studies. Results of such studies are susceptible to biases owing to weak instruments, as well as the confounding effects of population stratification and horizontal pleiotropy. Here, we show that family data can be leveraged to design MR tests that are provably robust to confounding.

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is an optic neuropathy characterized by progressive degeneration of the optic nerve that leads to irreversible visual impairment. Multiple epidemiological studies suggest an association between POAG and major neurodegenerative disorders (Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, frontotemporal dementia, and Parkinson's disease) This study found a genetic overlap and causal relationship betweenPOAG and its related phenotypes.

Human same-sex sexual behavior (SSB) is heritable and leads to fewer offspring. It is puzzling why SSB-associated alleles have not been selectively purged. Having more sexual partners no longer predicts more offspring since the availability of oral contraceptives.

The current study was conducted to provide a general guidance for model specifications in polygenic risk score (PRS) analyses of the UK Biobank. We evaluated three continuous outcomes (BMI, smoking, drinking) and two binary outcomes (Major Depressive Disorder and educational attainment) We applied 3280 (656 per phenotype) different models including different sets of covariates.

A diverse set of factors influence cardiovascular diseases (CVDs), but a systematic investigation of the interplay between these determinants is largely missing from the literature. We leverage one of the most comprehensive biobanks worldwide, the UK Biobank, to investigate the contribution of different risk factor categories. The investigated categories include the history of medical events, behavioural factors, socioeconomic factors, environmental factors and measurements.

No studies have investigated such associations in heart failure (HF) Study aimed to explore the associations of the consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs) with the risk of incident HF.

eGFR Cr underestimates risk of ischaemic stroke and major bleeding in women compared to eGFR Cys. The difference between measures is likely explained by non-GFR biology of creatinine and cystatin C.

High myopia (HM) is one of the leading causes of visual impairment and blindness worldwide. We report a whole-exome sequencing (WES) study in 9,613 HM cases and 9,606 controls of Han Chinese ancestry to pinpoint HM-associated risk variants.

Male gender was the highest-ranked risk factor, followed by elevated serum insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), lymphocyte count, and neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio. Factors aligned with the symptoms of frailty also ranked highly.

Study included 214244 participants of the UK Biobank who were initially free of CKD. During a median of 11.9 years of follow-up, 6583 incidents of chronic kidney disease were documented. Secondhand smoke exposure increased the risk of CKd (HR=1.09; 95% CI: 1.03-1.16, p)

In this study, the asymptotic distributions of the likelihood ratio test (LRT) and other test statistics are examined. The statistics are used to test an additive effect of the expected familial relatedness (FR) in a linear mixed model. The four test statistics were also applied to a data set from the UK Biobank.

Using UK Biobank data, we included around 0.29 million middle- to old-aged participants. Glucosamine supplementation was measured by questionnaire at baseline. Incident cases of dementia and Parkinson's disease were identified through linkage.

Genome-wide association studies have identified more than 200 genomic loci for breast cancer risk. Specific causal genes in most of these loci have not been identified. To identify candidate genes, we performed a GWAS analysis in a breast cancer dataset from UK Biobank.

Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) is a condition where adjacent vertebrae become fused through formation of osteophytes. The genetic and epidemiological etiology of this condition is not well understood. We implemented a machine learning algorithm to assess the prevalence and severity of the pathology in the UK Biobank Imaging cohort.

Study aimed to assess the relations between potato consumption and the risk of T2D. Potato consumption was evaluated using the 24-hour dietary questionnaire. Theoretically, replacing one serving/day of total potatoes with the same amount of non-starchy vegetables was related to a 12% (95% CI: 0.84-0.91) lower T1D risk.

Hypertension is a polygenic disease that affects over 1.2 billion adults aged 30-79 worldwide. It is a major risk factor for renal, cerebrovascular, and cardiovascular diseases. The heritability of hypertension is estimated to be high; nevertheless, our understanding of its underlying mechanisms remains scarce.

Human diseases are traditionally studied as singular, independent entities. We construct a disease representation as points in a continuous, high-dimensional space. We use time-stamped clinical records of over 151 million unique Americans.

Study aimed to investigate the association between an overall plant-based diet and the incidence of dementia or depression. Dementia and depression were evaluated using hospital inpatient records in UK Biobank.

Most existing deep learning based methods for vessel segmentation neglect two important aspects of retinal vessels. In this paper, we propose a robust orientation and context entangled network (OCE-Net), which can extract complex orientation andcontext information from blood vessels.

In this work, we investigate image registration in a variational framework and focus on regularization generality and solver efficiency. We first propose a model combining the state-of-the-art sum of absolute differences (SAD) and a new arbitrary order total variation regularization term. We then break down the resultant convex optimization into several point-wise, closed-form subproblems using a fast, over-relaxed alternating direction method of multipliers.

Cognitive decline significantly elevates the risk of diabetic vascular complications and is correlated with retinal and renal microcirculation damage. Cognitive screening tests are strongly recommended as routine tools for management of diabetes.

This study used cross-sectional UK Biobank data to estimate the influence of active and passive commuting modes and commuting distance on cardiovascular disease (CVD) -related biomarkers. The study sample comprised 208,893 UKBiobank baseline survey participants aged 40 to 69 who use various modes of transport to commute to work at least once a week.

A higher dietary diversity score (DDS) and a lower energy-adjusted dietary inflammatory index (E-DII) may be associated with lower risks of type 2 diabetes (T2D) and mortality. A total of 181,360 participants without all types of diabetes at baseline from the UK Biobank and 42,139 participants from the US NHANES were included. No evidence was observed of the interactive effects of DDS and E-D II on either all-cause mortality or the incidence and mortality of T2D.

Little is known about the combined relationship between night shifts and lifestyle risks with incident dementia or their potential interactions. A total of 276 059 participants were included in this study from the UK Biobank cohort. The combined impact was higher than the increase in the risks related to each single factor.

 MN is one of the most common causes of nephrotic syndrome worldwide. Its biological and environmental determinants are poorly understood in large-part due to it being a rare disease. This study aims to address this gap in understanding using the UK Biobank.

This paper aims to present the first Frequentist framework on signal region detection in high-resolution and high-order image regression problems. We propose nonconvex optimization problems for one-term and multi-term SKPDs and develop path-following algorithms. Effectiveness of SKPD is validated by real brain imaging data in the UK Biobank database.

Low hemoglobin and anemia are associated with cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease. Anemia was associated with a 56% higher risk of developing dementia. Hemoglobin and red blood cell distribution width were causally associated with AD.

Few studies have considered the effects of both sleep duration and efficiency on predicting the risks of mortality. The UK Biobank is a cohort study of over 500 000 individuals recruited between 2006 and 2010. The study included participants wearing wrist accelerometers for 7 consecutive days.

The interplay between host genetic factors, colonization of specific bacteria, production of short-chain fatty acids (SCFA), and intake of whole grains and fiber could alter the protective role of carbohydrates against colorectal cancer. We assessed intakes of types and sources of carbohydrates in 114,217 UK Biobank participants with detailed dietary data.

There is growing need to distinguish between sex and gender. While sex is assigned at birth, gender is socially constructed and may not correspond to one's assigned sex. In most research studies, sex or gender is assessed in isolation.

Sex-specific pan-cancer risk scores (PCRSs) are defined by the combination of body mass index, smoking, family history of cancers, and cancer-specific polygenic risk scores. We demonstrate the added value of PRSs in improving the predictive performance of the risk factors only model and project the positive and negative predictive values for two promising multicancer screening tests.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is one of the major causes of ischaemic stroke. The impact of genetic factors on the risk of AF-related thromboembolic stroke has been largely unknown. Among them, the gasdermin D (GSDMD) gene was related to inflammation.

We developed a machine learning model to quantify cardiac fibrosis using cardiac MRI data from 41,505 UK Biobank participants. We identified 11 independent genomic loci, 9 of which were implicated in in vitro cardiac fibroblast activation.

 Theory predicts that biological processes of aging may contribute to poor mental health in late life. To test this hypothesis, we evaluated prospective associations between biological age and incident depression and anxiety in 424,299 UK Biobank participants.

Psychiatric disorders frequently co-occur and share common symptoms and genetic backgrounds. Previous research has used genome-wide association studies to identify the interrelationships among psychiatric disorders. In this study, we explored the network structure of the polygenic risk score (PRS) for 13 psychiatric disorders in a general population.

Chronic back pain (CBP) is a common debilitating condition with substantial societal impact. Few large-scale studies investigating this topic for CBP have been done. The results indicate a modest, if any, modification of genetic effects by examined risk factors in CBP.

Growing evidence suggests that red meat consumption is a risk factor for cardiovascular health. The metabolic mechanisms have not been fully understood. Unprocessed red meat and processed meat consumption was associated with higher IHD mortality overall and in men. Triglycerides and VLDL-related lipid metabolism may contribute to the sex-specific associations.

We perform targeted attack, a systematic computational unlinking of the network. We analyze its effects on global communication across the brain network through its giant cluster. We find that targeted attack procedures on increasing white matter tract lengths and densities are remarkably invariant to aging and disease.

Little cohort evidence is available on the effect of healthy behaviours and socioeconomic status (SES) on respiratory disease mortality. We included 372,845 participants from a UK biobank (2006-2021) SES was derived by latent class analysis. A healthy behaviours index was constructed. Participants were categorized into nine groups on the basis of combinations of them.

Medical imaging studies investigating COVID-19 to date have mostly been limited to small datasets and post-hoc analyses of severe cases. UK Biobank recruited recovered SARS-CoV-2 positive individuals and matched controls who were extensively imaged prior to the pandemic and underwent follow-up scanning.

Genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary data have become extremely useful in daily routine data analysis. A severe limitation with the current use of GWAS summary data is its exclusive restriction to only linear single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-trait association analyses. We propose a nonparametric method for large-scale imputation of the genetic component of the trait for the given genotypes.

Study used data from UK Biobank, included 316568 participants aged 37 to 73 years recruited from 22 centers between 2006 and 2010. Lower levels of TPA, MVPA, and VPA independently associated with elevated risk of all-cause and cancer mortality.

The cognitive reserve (CR) hypothesis is reinforced by negative moderating effects. Those with higher CR are less reliant on brain structure for cognitive function. Previous research has yielded inconsistent results. Study III showed age influenced CR proxies' moderating effect in hippocampal regions.

Sex differences in complex traits are suspected to be in part due to widespread gene-by-sex interactions (GxSex) Here, we infer the mixture of ways in which polygenic effects on physiological traits covary between males and females. We find that GxSex is pervasive but acts primarily through systematic sex differences.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have significantly advanced our understanding of the genetic underpinnings of diseases. Case and control cohort definitions for a given disease can vary between different published studies. Two GWAS for the same disease using the UK Biobank data set might use different data sources.

Biological aging of human organ systems reflects the interplay of age, chronic disease, lifestyle and genetic risk. Using longitudinal brain imaging and physiological phenotypes from the UK Biobank, we establish normative models of biological age for three brain and seven body systems.

The ongoing release of large-scale sequencing data in the UK Biobank allows for the identification of associations between rare variants and complex traits. SAIGE-GENE+ is a valid approach to conducting set-based association tests for quantitative and binary traits.

There is widespread interest in identifying genetic variants that exhibit parent-of-origin effects. Traditional tests for POEs require family data to determine parental origins of transmitted alleles. We propose a method to improve discovery of POE variants in large-scale GWAS samples.

The goal of medical imaging is to be able to precisely detect patterns of disease specific to individual scans. Traditional methods, based on image registration, historically fail to detect variable features of disease. In this paper we develop a method for simultaneous classification and feature attribution.

Polygenic scores allow novel assessments of young children's abilities that are uncontaminated by parental investments. Family-based samples allow indirect tests of whether children're abilities are reinforced or compensated. We find evidence consistent with compensatory processes.

Cross-sectional analysis of UK Biobank participants without pre-existing coronary artery disease. Genetic risk factors PRSCAD and HeFH were most strongly associated with FHHD. A combined model of clinical and genetic risk factors explains only 36% of the likelihood of FH HD.

 Epistasis, or non-additive interaction between genes, exists across the genome but often goes undetected because of a lack of statistical power. We hypothesize that uncovering long-range interactions between loci with strong LD due to epistatic selection can elucidate genetic mechanisms underlying common diseases.

Risk for COVID-19 positivity and hospitalization due to diverse environmental and sociodemographic factors may change as the pandemic progresses. "participant having son and/or daughter in household" was associated with an increase in incidence from 20% to 32% between timepoints.

Machine learning (ML) has transformed neuroimaging research by enabling accurate predictions and feature extraction from large datasets. Despite the plethora of proposed ML models, there is no clear consensus on how to achieve better performance in brain age prediction for this population. We found that the predictive performance of brain age is more reliant on the image modalities used than the ML algorithms.

The association between sleep pattern and chronic kidney disease (CKD) incidence has not been addressed. We sought to investigate the association of multidimensional sleep pattern with CKD in consideration of genetic polymorphisms. We identified 167 SNPs that interacted with unhealthy sleep patterns and affected the risk of CKD.

A pipeline that extends the Advanced Normalization Tools (ANTs) framework was developed on 341 whole-body DXA scans of UK Biobank South Asian participants. A set of 10 measurements throughout the skeleton was automatically obtained via this process. Stature was then regressed on the automated femoral and tibia lengths and compared to published stature regressions.

Reti-CVD is a deep-learning-based cardiovascular disease (CVD) retinal biomarker. It was able to identify individuals with intermediate and high-risk for CVD in accordance with existing risk assessment tools.

Study used observational and genetic data from large consortia. Mendelian randomisation analysis identified a potentially adverse causal effect of higher systolic BP on cognitive function. Complementary MR and observational analyses identify brain structures associated with BP.

Study looked at 63,277 individuals in the UK Biobank with depressive symptoms and tryptophan intake. A modest protective effect of high dietary TLR against depression was found. NPBWR1 among serotonin genes and POLI in kynurenine pathway genes were significantly associated with depression in the low but not in the high TLR group.

Genome-wide association studies in chronic pain patients have identified hundreds of common pathogenic variants. With the advances in next-generation sequencing technologies, it is now feasible to conduct rarer variants studies in large-scale databases.

A rare group of individuals called "super-agers" thrive with their exceptional ability to maintain a healthy brain and normal cognitive function even in old age. Studying their traits, lifestyles, and environments may provide valuable insight.

There is evidence that cancer is partly caused by rare genetic variants that have not yet been identified. Using germline whole-exome sequencing data from the UK Biobank, we developed risk models for 10 cancer types. The meta-features did not improve the prediction accuracy of models based on known risk variants.

Short telomeres are associated with an increased risk of neurological and psychiatric disorders including dementia. The mechanism underlying this risk is unclear, and may involve brain structure and function. Longer telomere length was protective against certain related clinical manifestations.

Sex-specific associations between birth weight and the risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD) later in life remain controversial. Compared with normal birth weight (2.5-4.0 kg), low birth weight was associated with an 11% lower risk of CKD in men but not in women.

Accurate power and sample size estimation is crucial to the design and analysis of genetic association studies. When analyzing a binary trait via logistic regression, important covariates such as age and sex are typically included in the model. However, their effects are rarely properly considered in power or sample size computation during study planning.

Study looked at genetic risk of cardiovascular disease by age at type 2 diabetes (T2D) diagnosis. Individuals with earlier T2D diagnosis had higher CVD risk. Increased genetic risk was largely mitigated by a healthy lifestyle.

Each 10 beats per minute increase in RHR was linked with smaller ventricular structure, poorer left ventricular (LV) function and unhealthy pattern of LV remodeling. These trends are more pronounced among males. However, genetically-predicted RHR is not statistically related to heart failure.

Transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS) have recently emerged as a popular tool to discover (putative) causal genes. In our motivating and target application, we'd like to identify causal genes for low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL), which is crucial for developing new treatments.

A total of 26,354 participants from the UK Biobank study with available CVH metrics and qualified retinal imaging were included in the present analysis. CVH included 7 metrics (smoking, physical activity, diet, body mass index [BMI], total cholesterol, blood pressure [BP], blood glucose) These were summarized to classify the overall CVH as poor (0-7), intermediate (8-10) or ideal (11-14)

We multiply ascertained the BRCA1 pathogenic missense variant c.5207T > C; p.Val1736Ala (V1736A) in clinical investigation of breast and ovarian cancer families from Orkney in the Northern Isles of Scotland, UK. Oral history and birth, marriage and death registrations indicated genealogical linkage of the clinical cases to ancestors from the Isle of Westray. Twenty out of 2088 ORCADES research volunteers (~1%) carry V1736a, with a common haplotype around the variant. This allele frequency is ~480-fold higher than in UK Biobank participants.

Cases of lumbar spondylolisthesis, spinal stenosis, degenerative disc disease, and pseudarthrosis after spinal fusion were identified from the UK Biobank. Whole-genome regressions were used to test for genetic variants potentially implicated in the occurrence of each phenotype.

In the past, methods to subtype or biotype patients using brain imaging data have been developed. However, it is unclear whether and how these trained machine learning models can be successfully applied to population cohorts to study the genetic and lifestyle factors underpinning these subtypes. This work examines the generalisability of data-driven Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression models.

Introgressed Neanderthal variants make a significant contribution to trait variation (explaining 0.12% of trait variation on average) But the contribution of introgressed variants tends to be significantly depleted relative to modern human variants matched for allele frequency and linkage disequilibrium.

Identifying genotype-by-environment interaction (GEI) is challenging because the GEI analysis generally has low power. Large-scale consortium-based studies are ultimately needed to achieve adequate power for identifying GEI. We introduce Multi-Trait Analysis of Gene-Environment Interactions (MTAGEI) to test gene-environment interactions on multiple traits.

Human cortical expansion has occurred non-uniformly across the brain. We found 393 and 756 significant loci with and without adjusting for globals, respectively. Consideration of global measures is important in understanding the genetic variants underlying cortical morphology.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) identify genomic loci associated with complex traits. It remains a challenge to identify the genes affected by causal genetic variants in these loci. Here, we show how to combine solutions to these problems into a unified mathematical framework.

The 10-year risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) considering risk factor burden and genetic predisposition is unknown. A total of 348,904 genetically unrelated participants without AF at baseline from the UK were categorized into three groups. Optimal, borderline, or elevated risk factors were determined by body mass index, blood pressure, diabetes mellitus, alcohol consumption, smoking status and history of myocardial infarction or heart failure.

TV viewing in the elderly and in children is associated with subsequent greater decline of various cognitive functions including verbal working memory. Results of its association with subsequent risk of dementia were divided.

Obesity is a risk factor for both the development of and mortality from breast cancer in postmenopausal but not in premenopausal women. Which part of the fat mass is associated with risk remains unclear. After menopause, there was an increase in fat mass in different body segments (arms, legs, and trunk)

 ERAP2 is an aminopeptidase involved in immunological antigen presentation. Genotype data in human samples from before and after the Black Death, an epidemic due to Yersinia pestis, have marked changes in allele frequency of the single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs2549794. The T allele of this SNP showed evidence of association with respiratory infection and Crohn disease.

This study examined the association between developmental dysplasia of the hip and disease-associated loci in a Japanese cohort. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) of 238 Japanese patients with DDH and 2044 healthy individuals was performed. As a replicate, GWAS was also conducted on the UK Biobank data with 3315 cases and matched 74,038 controls.

Breastfeeding in infancy is associated with a lower risk of mortality among children, but the impact on mortality in middle and late adulthood remains unknown. We included 383,627 participants aged 40-73 from the UK Biobank (2006-2010) and followed up until 2021.

Evidence suggests potential links between circadian rhythm and atrial fibrillation (AF) Whether circadian disruption can predict the onset of AF in the general population remains largely unknown. We aim to investigate the association of accelerometer-measured circadian rest-activity rhythm (CRAR) with the risk of AF.

A link between neurodegenerative diseases and infections has been previously reported. However, it is not clear to what extent such link is caused by confounding factors. Further, studies on the impact of infections on mortality risk are rare. We analysed two data sets with different characteristics.

The classification of at-risk women using this new model highlights the opportunity to improve risk stratification and implement existing clinical risk-reduction interventions.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common arrhythmia and typically occurs in elderly patients with other cardiovascular and extracardiac diseases. Up to 15% of AF develops without any related risk factors. Recently, the role of genetic factors has been highlighted in this form of AF.

The role of systemic inflammation in promoting cardiovascular diseases has attracted attention, but its correlation with various arrhythmias remains to be clarified. We aimed to comprehensively assess the association between various indicators of. systemic inflammation and atrial fibrillation/flutter (AF), ventricular arrhythmia (VA), and bradyarrhythmi in the UK Biobank cohort. VA showed the strongest association with systemic inflammation indicators, and it was followed sequentially by AF and Bradyarr hythmia.

Mendelian randomization using GWAS summary statistics has become a popular method to infer causal relationships across complex diseases. The widespread pleiotropy observed in GWAS has made the selection of valid instrumental variables problematic. We propose a ststistical framework, MRCI, to estimate reciprocal causation between two phenotypes simultaneously.

The role of nutritional status and the risk of contracting and/or experiencing adverse outcomes from severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection are unclear. Preliminary studies suggest that higher n-3 PUFA intakes are protective.

There is strong evidence showing that joint analysis of multiple phenotypes in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) can increase statistical power. We previously developed the Clustering Linear Combination (CLC) method and a computationally efficient CLC method. We develop a novel method called sCLC for association studies of multiple Phenotypes and a genetic variant.

Photoreceptor cells (PRCs) are the light-detecting cells of the retina. Such cells can be non-invasively imaged using optical coherence tomography (OCT) We present the largest genome-wide association study of PRC morphology to date.

 Transcriptome-wide association studies (TWASs) aim to detect associations between genetically predicted gene expression and complex diseases or traits. Most current TWAS methods analyze one gene at a time, ignoring the correlations between multiple genes. Here, we propose a novel method, namely a COx proportional hazards model for NEtwork regression in TWAS.

Direct work with the public and exposure to disease/infections were first time demonstrated to be risk factors for both anxiety and depression. occupations involving more physical activities and dealing with unpleasant/physically aggressive people. Protective factors for anxiety only: Coordinating/leading, fluency of ideas, originality, problem sensitivity, decision latitude, and time pressure.

Relationships between insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) levels and cardiovascular disease (CVD) in the general population remain unclear. UK Biobank documented 35 803 incident CVD cases, including 4231 from CVD-related death, 27 051 from CHD, 10 014 from MI, 7661 from HF, and 6802 from stroke.

There is growing recognition that CP conditions frequently coexist at multiple body sites and may bring more burdens on patients' overall health. Whether and how multisite CP (MCP) contributes to an increased risk of dementia is largely unclear. In the current study, utilizing the UK Biobank cohort, we first investigated dementia risk in individuals (n = 354,943) with different numbers of coexisting CP sites.

Very high levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) have been paradoxically linked to increased mortality risk. Study aimed to examine associations of HDL-C and varied sizes of the HDL particle with mortality risk stratified by hypertension.

Recent work in imaging genetics suggests high levels of genetic overlap within cortical regions for cortical thickness (CT) and surface area (SA) We model this multivariate system of genetic relationships by applying Genomic Structural Equation Modeling. We identify specific categories of genes that are disproportionately associated with pleiotropy across specific subclusters of brain regions.

There is growing interest in the role of timing of daily behaviors in improving health. Little is known about the optimal timing of physical activity to maximize health benefits. Moderate-to-vigorous intensity physical activity at any time of day is associated with lower risks for all-cause, cardiovascular disease, and cancer mortality.

Calcium plays a critical role in various physiological activities. However, the association between circulating calcium concentrations and mortality in a general healthy population remains undetermined. We examined the association of serum calcium concentrations with all-cause and cause-specific mortality using Cox proportional hazard and restricted cubic spline models.

Metabolic illnesses (MET) are detrimental to brain integrity and are common comorbidities in patients with mental illnesses, including major depressive disorder (MDD) We quantified effects of MET on standard regional brain morphometric measures from 3D brain MRI as well as diffusion MRI in a large sample of UK BioBank participants. Subjects with MET showed a higher effect size for RVI-MET than for any of the individual brain measures.

Lifestyle factors are related to health and brain function and structure, but the brain systems involved are incompletely understood. Higher combined lifestyle risk scores were associated with lower functional connectivity across the whole brain, but especially of three brain systems. Low mobile phone use, perhaps indicative of poor social communication channels, was associated with low functional connectivity.

White matter tracts form the structural basis of large-scale brain networks. We applied brain-wide tractography to diffusion images from 30,810 adults (U.K. Biobank) We found significant heritability for 90 node-level and 851 edge-level network connectivity measures.

Age-related (AR) hearing loss (HL) is a prevalent sensory deficit in the elderly population. Several studies showed that common variants increase ARHL susceptibility. Here, we demonstrate that rare-variants play a crucial role in ARHL etiology.

Study looked at the impact of genetic and socioeconomic factors on risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D) and obesity. Favorable area-level socioeconomic status was associated with an almost 50% lower T2D prevalence in those with high genetic risk.

Among 239,436 women (40-69 years) enrolled in the UK Biobank cohort who had no cancer history at baseline, we identified 35 self-reported chronic diseases at baseline. In total, 58.4% of women had at least one morbidity, and the prevalence of multi-morbidity was 25.8%. During a median 7-year follow-up, there was no association between breast cancer risk and either the number of morbidities or the identified clinically relevant morbidity patterns.

There is a paucity of data on the association between respiratory function and atrial fibrillation (AF) This study aimed to assess the relationship between forced expiratory volume (FEV1), forced vital capacity (FVC), and FEV1/FVC and AF.

Dyslipidemia is closely associated with metabolic syndrome, a known risk factor for colorectal cancer. Most previous studies did not consider cholesterol-lowering medication use at the time of lipid measurements, which could bias findings. We analyzed data from 384,862 UK Biobank participants.

Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is the most devastating adverse outcome for patients on anticoagulants. We investigated whether integration of a genetic risk score into an existing risk factor-based CRS could improve risk stratification for ICH.

Study included 401,189 participants in the UK Biobank between 2006 and 2010. During a median follow-up of 12.4 years, a total of 43,273 incident cancer cases were documented. We found that exposure to greenspace at a 1000 m buffer was significantly associated with prostate cancer.

Cross-ancestry genetic correlation is an important parameter to understand the genetic relationship between two ancestry groups. Existing methods cannot properly account for ancestry-specific genetic architecture, which is diverse across ancestries. Here, we present a method to construct a genomic relationship matrix (GRM) that can correctly account for the relationship. The proposed method is further applied to anthropometric and other complex traits from the UK Biobank.

Older men on an average have lower testosterone concentrations, compared with younger men, and more age-related comorbidities. Shorter telomeres are a marker for biological age. We tested the hypothesis that testosterone concentrations are associated with leucocyte telomere length.

Middle-aged and older Europeans not diagnosed with dementia within two years of baseline were followed up and their data were analysed until 2021. The association between the nutrient quintiles measured by the web-based 24 h dietary and the risk of developing dementia was examined using a Cox proportional hazard model. A greater risk of dementia was associated with (a) no alcohol intake, (b) higher intake of total sugars and carbohydrates, (c) highest or lowest fat intake, and (d) highest protein intake.

 Proxy phenotypes based on parental diagnosis status have been used in previous studies to identify common variants associated with Alzheimer's disease. As of yet, proxy phenotypes have not been used to identify genes associated with the disease through rare variants. We show that a proxy Alzheimer’s disease/dementia phenotype can capture known risk genes through rare variant aggregation.

The Korean National Health Insurance Service-Health Screening Study and the UK Biobank were evaluated. 2346 and 5314 incident AF events were recorded during the mean follow-up of 7.4 and 11.8 years. The risk of incident AF was increased by the combination of high-normal BP and IFG.

Using previously approved medications for new indications can expedite the lengthy and expensive drug development process. We describe a bioinformatics pipeline that integrates genomics and proteomics platforms to identify already-approved drugs that might be useful to treat diabetic retinopathy.

Previous research has linked having an eveningness chronotype with a higher tolerance for night shift work. On a sample of 53 211 workers in the UK Biobank (2006-2018), we focus on the effects of nightshift work on sleep duration. We find that eveningness has a strong protective effect on night workers. This protective effect is pronounced for those working the longest hours. Consistent patterns are observed with an actigraphy-derived measure of sleepduration.

DeepPheWAS is an R package for phenome-wide association studies. It creates clinically curated composite phenotypes and integrates quantitative phenotypes from primary care data. Tools are provided for efficient analysis of association with any genetic input.

COPCs are believed to share common etiological mechanisms involving central sensitization. This study employed a genome-wide polygenic risk score approach to evaluate genetic influences on 8 common COPCs. A centralized pain score (CPS) was calculated for 55,340 individuals.

Brain age is considered as an important biomarker for detecting aging-related diseases such as Alzheimer's Disease (AD) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have been widely investigated with deep neural networks for brain age estimation. Most existing methods cannot make full use of multimodal MRIs due to the difference in data structure.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD), the leading cause of death globally, is associated with complicated underlying risk factors. We develop an artificial intelligence model to identify CVD using multimodal data, including clinical risk factors and fundus photographs from the Samsung Medical Center and UK Biobank.

Loss-of-Function (LoF) variants in human genes are important due to their impact on clinical phenotypes and frequent occurrence in the genomes of healthy individuals. Current approaches predict high-confidence LoF variants without identifying the specific genes or the number of copies they affect.

Adverse outcome pathways provide a powerful tool for understanding the biological signaling cascades that lead to disease outcomes following toxicity. Here we use the AOP framework combined with artificial intelligence methods to gain novel insights into genetic mechanisms that underlie toxicity-mediated adverse health outcomes. We focus on liver cancer as a case study with diverse underlying mechanisms that are clinically significant.

Alzheimer's disease and related dementias is a major public health burden-compounding over upcoming years due to longevity. Recently, clinical evidence hinted at the experience of social isolation in expediting dementia onset.

Patients with brain arteriovenous malformation (AVM) are at risk of intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) The epsilon 2 and 4 alleles within the APOE gene are well-described genetic risk factors for spontaneous, non-traumatic intraparenchymal hemorrhages.

Metabolic biomarker data quantified by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy in approximately 121,000 UK Biobank participants has recently been released as a community resource. Here we identify and characterise additional sources of unwanted technical variation influencing individual biomarkers. We developed a procedure for removing this unwantedtechnical variation, and demonstrate that it increases signal for genetic and epidemiological studies.

Sleep disturbances are increasingly recognized as adversely affecting brain health in aging. Our aim was to investigate interrelations between sleep-related symptoms, obesity, cardiometabolic disorders, brain structure and cognitive decline in a population-based aging sample.

A greater risk of cardiovascular disease is associated with low educational attainment and high adiposity. We investigated the effect of adiposity (body mass index [BMI] and waist-to-hip ratio adjusted for BMI [WHRadjBMI]) on incident CVD among individuals with varying education levels.

Sepsis is characterised by dysregulated, life-threatening immune responses. Sepsis is thought to be driven by cytokines such as interleukin 6 (IL-6) Genetic variants in IL6R known to down-regulate IL-6 signalling are associated with improved Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) outcomes. We hypothesised that blockade of IL4R could also improve outcomes in sepsis. We performed a Mendelian randomisation (MR) analysis using single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in and nearIL6R.

Study aimed to compare the biomarker profile of pre-frail and frail adults in the UK Biobank cohort by sex. Lower concentrations of apoA1, total, LDL, and HDL cholesterol, albumin, eGFRcys, vitamin D, total bilirubin, apoB, and testosterone were identified. However, some of the associations differed by sex, such as rheumatoid factor and urate.

Penalized quasi-likelihood estimation allows to scale regularized mixed models on high-dimensional binary trait GWAS. We show through simulations that when the dimensionality of the relatedness matrix is high, penalized LMM and logistic regression with PC adjustment fail to select important predictors, and have inferior prediction accuracy.

Delta age is a biomarker of brain aging that captures differences between the chronological age and the predicted biological brain age. Using multimodal data of brain MRI, genomics, and blood-based biomarkers and metabolomics in UK Biobank, this study investigates an explainable and causal basis of high delta age.

Sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels in clinical risk stratification and intervention for coronary heart disease (CHD) remains uncertain. We aimed to examine whether circulating levels of SHBG are predictive of CHD risk in men and women. We investigated the association between SHBG and the risk of incident CHD in 128 322 men and 135 103 women.

Phenotypic associations have been reported between blood cell traits (BCTs) and a range of neurological and psychiatric disorders (NPDs) It remains unclear whether these associations have a genetic basis and, if so, to what extent genetic correlations reflect causality. We report genetic correlations and Mendelian randomization analyses between 11 NPDs and 29 BCTs.

Survival rates from colorectal cancer (CRC) are drastically higher if the disease is detected and treated earlier. Current screening guidelines involve stool-based tests and colonoscopies, whose acceptability and uptake remains low. Routinely collected blood-based biomarkers may offer a low-cost alternative or aid for detecting CRC.

Estimation of heritability is crucial for quantifying and understanding complex trait genetic architecture. Many existing approaches for heritability estimation ignore the presence of indirect genetic effects. In this work, we introduce a statistical framework to decompose heritability and genetic covariance.

In 491 606 UK Biobank participants, greater obesity was linked to significantly greater risk of incident ischaemic heart disease, atrial fibrillation (AF), heart failure (HF), all-cause mortality, and cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality. Individuals with overweight BMI but normal WHR had weaker disease associations.

In this study we examine the instrument selection strategies currently used throughout the type 2 diabetes and HbA1c Mendelian randomization (MR) literature. We then argue for a more integrated and thorough approach, providing a framework to do this.

Previous studies have found no causal effects of education on mental health in the UK. We re-examine the relationship between education and mental health by taking a different approach. We find that higher educational attainment is associated with better adult mental health.

Cancer continues to be a major source of mortality and morbidity throughout the world. Traditional methods of detection and diagnosis such as biopsy and imaging, tend to be expensive and have risks of complications. As data becomes more abundant and machine learning continues advancing, it is natural to ask how they can help solve some of these problems.

Viral exposures significantly associated with increased risk of neurodegenerative disease. Largest effect association was between viral encephalitis exposure and Alzheimer's disease. Influenza with pneumonia was significantly associated. with five of the six neurodegnerative diseases studied. Some of these exposures were associated with an increased risk up to 15 years later.

Loss or absence of hearing is common at both extremes of human lifespan. There is increasing evidence that their genetic basis is at least partially overlapping. Both common and rare variants in genes associated with monogenic forms of hearing loss also contribute to the more polygenic basis of age-related hearing loss.

The association between biological age and lung cancer risk remains controversial. We conducted a prospective analysis in the UK Biobank study and two-sample Mendelian randomization analysis to investigate this association. PhenoAgeAccel was positively associated with the risk of overall and histological subtypes of lung cancer.

BMI-independent variation in visceral (VAT), abdominal subcutaneous (ASAT), and gluteofemoral (GFAT) fat depots in 40,032 individuals of the UK Biobank with body MRI. VATadjBMI associated with increased risk of type 2 diabetes and coronary artery disease. ASATadjB MI is largely neutral, and GFATadj BMI is associated with reduced risk. These results clarify the cardiometabolic impact of BMI-independent differences in body fat distribution.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have been performed to identify host genetic factors for a range of phenotypes, including for infectious diseases. The use of population-based common control subjects from biobanks and extensive consortia is a valuable resource to increase sample sizes in the identification of associated loci with minimal additional expense.

 Electrocardiogram analysis methods using deep neural networks are becoming more efficient and accurate than traditional machine learning methods. The study of long-term ischemic heart disease prediction based on exercise electrocardiograms is still limited. The proposed model performance is better than the traditional expert feature based methods.

Pulmonary function is an indicator of well-being, and pulmonary pathologies are the third major cause of death worldwide. We analysed the UK Biobank genome-wide association summary statistics of pulmonary function for Europeans and individuals of recent African descent to identify variants associated with the trait in the two ancestries. Remarkably, we find no shared variants among Africans and Europeans.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is associated with structural and functional brain abnormalities. This work compares the gray matter volume and resting-state functional measures in a Chinese sample of 848 MDD patients and 749 healthy controls. It found that transcriptional correlates of brain structure and function show opposite relations with gene dysregulation in postmortem cortical tissue.

Study aimed to compare the cardiovascular risk among vegetarian diets that meet existing health guidelines, those that do not, and diets that include red meat. 391,124 participants (55.5% women) from the UK Biobank prospective population-based study were included.

It has been 15 years since the advent of the genome-wide association study (GWAS) era. We predict that the emergence of large-scale biobanks will continue to expand to more diverse populations. Whole-genome sequencing will further improve our ability to investigate the causes and consequences of human genetic variation.

TREM2 is a membrane protein involved in neurodegenerative diseases and cancer. TREM2 knockout mice suffer from metabolic symptoms. We show a significant correlation between T REM2 expression levels and BMI in adipose tissues in samples from the GTEx database. This association was evident for males but not for females.

Study included 214,670 men and 214, 670 women matched by age at baseline from the UK Biobank. Baseline data were collected between 2006 and 2010, and incident dementia was ascertained using hospital inpatient or death records until January 2021. Mediation analysis was tested for 133 individual factors.

The Charlson comorbidity index (CCI) is widely used to measure multimorbidities. High waist-hip ratio (WHR) increases the risk of CCI in both males and females. Socio-economic factors, such as income and TDI, are associated with CCI.

The joint associations across genetic risk, modifiable lifestyle factors, and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) remains unclear. During the 12-year follow-up, 707 cases with CD and 1576 cases with UC were diagnosed in the UK Biobank cohort. Adherence to a favorable lifestyle was associated with a nearly 50% lower risk of CD and UC among participants at a high genetic risk.

The predicted age difference (PAD) between an individual's predicted brain age and chronological age has been commonly viewed as a meaningful phenotype relating to aging and brain diseases. The systematic bias appears in the PAD achieved using machine learning methods.

Research-ready data increase scientific opportunity and rigour by integrating the data environment. A standard data model (C-Surv) optimised for data discovery, was developed. The model uses a four-tier nested structure based on 18 data themes selected according to user behaviour or technology.

29 164 participants in the UK Biobank who had at least one follow-up assessment and were free of IHD were included. We constructed a weighted unhealthy lifestyle score though summing five lifestyle factors. The hazard ratio of incident IHD associated with per unit increase in unhealthy lifestyle trajectory was 1.08 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.99-1.17].

 Transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS) have been increasingly applied to identify (putative) causal genes for complex traits and diseases. TWAS can be regarded as a two-sample two-stage least squares method for instrumental variable (IV) regression for causal inference.

Metabolic dysfunction and obesity commonly coexist with both alcoholic and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. The association of AFLD and NAFLD with incident diseases in individuals with different metabolic phenotypes is unclear. UK Biobank study participants were screened for the presence of fatty liver at baseline.

Having children is likely associated with better cognitive function for fathers in all five domains. Mothers show worse cognitive function in some domains than childless women. The findings support previous work done on how life course contexts may link to the risk of dementia or cognitive impairment.

Evidence is limited regarding the associations of different dietary patterns with cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk among the population with diabetes. We prospectively followed 22 473 diabetic patients from the UK Biobank at the baseline. A higher healthy diet score was negatively associated with CVD, CHD, and stroke incidence.

Adverse childhood experiences may include psychological, physical, or sexual abuse; neglect; or socioeconomic factors. These experiences are linked with an increase in poor health behavior such as smoking and alcohol consumption. They may also influence epigenetic changes and metabolic changes.

Insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 plays an important role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis and increases disease risk. Previous research examining IGF-1 levels and brain neural network activity is mixed. The present study investigated the relationship between IGF- 1 levels and 21 neural networks, as measured by fMRI.

Underrepresentation of minority and disadvantaged groups has limited the use of biobank data for developing disease risk prediction models. This study proposes a transfer learning framework based on random forest models (TransRF) TransRF can incorporate models trained in a source population to improve the prediction performance in a target underrepresented population with limited sample size.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) do not generalize across groups differing in ancestry or sample characteristics e.g., age. Quantifying performance of PRS across different groups of study participants using genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics from multiple ancestry groups and sample sizes may clarify which factors are limiting PRS transferability.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) are increasingly used to estimate the personal risk of a trait based on genetics. Most genomic cohorts are of European populations, with a strong under-representation of non-European groups. Given that PRS poorly transport across racial groups, this has the potential to exacerbate health disparities.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) has emerged as a standard approach for identifying high-risk individuals. LDpred2 outperformed the other standalone tools, whereas PRS-CS, lassosum and DBSLMM showed comparable performance. Ensemble models are generally the best choice by integrating various statistical methods.

Screening history was associated with lower CRC incidence and mortality risk. Participants benefited more substantially from screenings for CRC mortality than for CRC incidence risk. Findings emphasize the importance of CRC screening and identifying environmental factors to reduce risk.

Genetic predisposition to higher docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) was associated with cholelithiasis and cholecystitis. Higher genetically predicted levels of DHA (0.83, 0.73 to 0.95) and omega-3 were found to have a protective effect on obesity. The findings do not support the supplementation of unsaturated fatty acids for cardiovascular disease prevention.

Tinnitus is a prevalent health condition often accompanied by psychiatric comorbidities. Recent genome-wide association studies highlighted a polygenic nature of tinnitus susceptibility. We present a GWAS using the UK Biobank to investigate the genetic processes linked to the condition.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) analyses are now routinely applied across biomedical research. As PRS studies grow in size, there is an increased risk of sample overlap between the genome-wide association study (GWAS) and the "target sample"

Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used drugs for gastric acid-related diseases and may affect the gut microbiome. We aimed to evaluate the associations of PPI use with risks of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and all-cause mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) We documented 2971 CAD, 1827 MI, 1192 HF, and 738 stroke cases and 2297 total deaths.

 Understanding comorbidity is essential for disease prevention, treatment and prognosis. In particular, insight into which pairs of diseases are likely or unlikely to co-occur may help elucidate the potential relationships between complex diseases. Here, we introduce the use of an inter-disease interactivity network to discover/prioritizeComorbidities. We determine disease associations by accounting for the direction of effects of genetic components.

Lifestyle management is a fundamental aspect of diabetes care to prevent cardiovascular disease (CVD) However, the underlying metabolic mechanism is not well established. We aimed to identify metabolites associated with different lifestyle factors, and estimate their mediating roles.

Vitamin D-grip strength relationship is equivocal. UK Biobank participants, aged 37-73 years, with valid data on Vitamin D status and maximum grip strength were included (N = 368,890). We examined sex-specific cross-sectional associations between 25(OH)D and grip strength.

The underlying mechanisms of atrial fibrillation (AF) are largely unknown. Inflammation may underlie atrial remodelling. Autoimmune diseases, related to increased systemic inflammation, may be associated with new-onset AF.

Network-based regression approach has been developed to incorporate a biological genetic network. We use a linear combination of genotypes at SNPs or methylation values at CpG sites in a gene. We regularize them to perform gene selection based on the biological network.

There is a multitude of pathological conditions that affect human health, yet we currently lack a predictive model for most diseases. We leveraged clinical biomarker data and long-term disease outcomes in UK Biobank to build prognostic multivariate survival models for over 200 most common diseases.

Few studies have examined the neuroanatomical measures mediating environmental and genetic effects on intelligence. We investigated the brain volumes, cortical mean thicknesses, and cortical surface areas mediating the effects of the g-factor polygenic score (gPGS) and childhood adversity. Only a few regions predicted intelligence and were included in the mediation analyses.

Among 413,109 middle- and old-aged adults without cancer or CVD, all participants reported the frequency of adding salt at the table at baseline. During a median follow-up of 12 years, there were 37,091 incident CVD cases and 21,293 all-cause deaths. After adjustment for demographic, lifestyle, and cardiometabolic risk factors, the multivariable-adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) were 1.21 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.16-1.26) for CVD.

Red meat consumption has been found to closely related to cardiometabolic health, with sex disparity. However, the specific metabolic factors corresponding to red meat consumption in men and women have not been examined previously. We analyzed the sex-specific associations of meat consumption, with 167 metabolites using multivariable regression.

Circadian rhythm disruption (CRD) is a shared characteristic of various brain disorders. Disruption of circadian rhythm might be a risk factor for brain disorder incidents. From 7-day accelerometry data of 72,242 participants in UK Biobank we derived a circadian relative amplitude variable. Individuals with reduced relative amplitude had increasing risk of all-cause dementia.

A total of 495,942 participants from UK Biobank who completed a questionnaire on habitual glucosamine use were included at baseline. A total of 6831 dementia events were recorded during a median follow-up of 11 years. In fully adjusted models, habitual use was associated with a significantly lower risk of dementia (HR = 0.87, 95% CI: 0.82-0.93)

Medical imaging provides insights into the subclinical changes that precede serious diseases such as heart disease and dementia. Most imaging research either describes a single organ system or draws on clinical cohorts with small sample sizes. In this study, we use state-of-the-art multi-organ magnetic resonance imaging phenotypes to investigate cross-sectional relationships across the heart-brain-liver axis.

Accelerated ageing is associated with increased COVID-19 severity. The mechanisms at work here are likely immunosenescence and inflamaging. This association indicates that anti-ageing treatment may improve CO VID-19 outcome. Results within ethnic groups and that of telomere length were inconclusive.

Traditional approaches in studying the genetics of complex traits have focused on identifying specific genetic variants. Here, we evaluated whether traits could be influenced by the collective effects of variants across the entire protein coding-region of the genome or the entire genome.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is common and highly heritable. Genetic studies of hepatic fat have not sufficiently addressed non-European and rare variants. In a medical biobank, we quantitate hepaticfat from clinical computed tomography (CT) scans via deep learning.

Basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinomas are the most common skin cancers. They have genetic overlap with melanoma, pigmentation traits, autoimmune diseases, and blood biochemistry biomarkers. In this multi-trait genetic analysis of over 300,000 participants from Europe, Australia and the United States, we reveal 78 risk loci.

GeoSPM-based on differential geometry and random field theory. We evaluate GeoSPM across an extensive array of synthetic simulations. We demonstrate its application on large-scale data from UK Biobank.

People with type 2 diabetes from the UK Biobank and Kuwaiti cohorts were included in this cross-sectional study. Self-reported sleep, physical activity, and muscle strength were compared between the cohorts. Results: Physical activity levels (-937 (-1,097, -851) Met-min/week and grip strength (3.2 (-3.58, -2.82) kg) were lower in the Kuwaiti cohort.

There was variation in frequency of APOE alleles across ethnic groups. Per standard deviation (SD) increase in z-GRS including APOE, the odds ratio (OR) for dementia was 1.73 (95%CI 1.69-1.77)

In the recent biobank era of genetics, the problem of identical-by-descent (IBD) segment detection received renewed interest. While a new generation of efficient methods for IBD segment detection becomes available, direct comparison of these methods is difficult. We developed a comprehensive and completely open-source evaluation of the power, accuracy, and resource consumption of these IBD segments.

In an increasingly older adult population, understanding the inter-relationship between three age related conditions is important. This study aims to determine the overlap between malnutrition, frailty and sarcopenia by measuring estimates of prevalence for each individual condition.

Comorbidity among psychiatric disorders is mirrored by non-zero, positive genetic correlations from large-scale genetic studies6-10. We conducted cross-trait meta-analysis on 12 psychiatric disorders to identify pleiotropic SNPs. The meta-analytic signal was driven by schizophrenia, hampering interpretation and joint biological characterization.

Prospective cohort study included 484,268 participants from the UK Biobank without glaucoma at enrollment. Incident POAG events were recorded through assessment visits, hospital inpatient admissions, and primary care data. Higher SBP and PP were associated with an increased risk of incident POAG.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) are a promising approach to accurately predict an individual's risk of developing disease. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of PRSs in their population are often only reported for models that are adjusted for age and sex.

Sedentary behavior time was significantly associated with a higher risk of coronary heart disease. Replacing sedentary behavior with various daily-life activities or structured exercise is associated with significant reductions in CHD risk. Sedentary behavior to strenuous sports reallocations showed the largest benefit.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) has demonstrated its great utility in biomedical research through identifying high-risk individuals for different diseases. However, the broader application of PRS to the general population is hindered by the limited transferability ofPRS developed in Europeans to non-European populations. We develop a statistical method called SDPRX that can effectively integrate genome wide association study summary statistics from different populations.

A total of 80,169 fundus images from 46,969 participants in the UK Biobank cohort met the image quality standard. Stroke events were determined by data linkage to hospital records on admissions and diagnoses, and national death registers. Each one-year increase in the retinal age gap was associated with a 4% increase in stroke.

Model-driven framework to leverage human genome-scale metabolic networks to define how genetic variants affect biochemical reaction fluxes across major human tissues. We build personalised organ-specific metabolic flux models for 524,615 individuals.

The positional Burrows-Wheeler transform has led to tremendous strides in haplotype matching on biobank-scale data. To enable fast query searches, the full-sized panel and PBWT data structures must be kept in memory. We propose a space-efficient variation of PBWT named Syllable-PBWT.

Being frail was associated with 2.68 times, 3.27 times, and 3.31 times higher risk of total respiratory diseases mortality. Adherence to a healthy lifestyle represents a potentially modifiable target for improving the harmful impact of frailty.

Previous studies have reported that maternal smoking during pregnancy and breastfeeding may affect the occurrence of hypertension. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationships among maternal smoking and breastfeeding with adult-onset hypertension and the modified impact of offspring genetic susceptibility.

Psychotropics have been associated with a lower risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection and COVID-19-related deaths. Among 168,173 participants who underwent testing for Sars-Cov-2 RNA, 30,577 (18.2%) were positive, and 14,284 (8.5%) participants used psychotropics.

Study looked at 79,161 adult participants in the UK Biobank who wore an actiwatch for 1 week. Time of sleep offset was found to be on average 36 min later on weekends than on weekdays. Younger age, more socioeconomic disadvantage, currently being in employment, being a smoker, being male and later chronotype were associated with greater differences in sleep offset.

Osteoarthritis often progresses to the end stage, in which only surgical options are available. To date, there have been no large multiancestry genetic studies of the disease. We leveraged the unique resources of 484,374 participants in the Million Veteran Program and UK Biobank.

Iiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a serious disease of the lung parenchyma. It has a known polygenetic risk, with at least seventeen regions of the genome implicated to date. Growing evidence suggests linked multimorbidity of IPF with neurodegenerative or affective disorders.

Myopia most often develops during school age, with the highest incidence in countries with intensive education systems. Interactions between genetic variants and educational exposure are hypothesized to confer susceptibility to myopia, but few such interactions have been identified.

Both musculoskeletal pain and sleep disturbances are major health problems worldwide. Literature suggests that the two are reciprocally related and both may be associated with changes in C-reactive protein (CRP) levels. However, the relationships among musculo- skeletal pain, sleep duration, and CRP remain unclear.

Robust Interaction Testing using Sample Splitting (RITSS) is based on sample splitting and robust test statistics. RITSS can incorporate sets of genetic variants and/or multiple environmental factors. Based on the user's choice of statistical/machine learning approaches, a screening step selects and combines potential interactions.

Lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] is a risk factor for atherosclerotic and valvular diseases, but its possible role in other diseases has not yet been established. We conducted phenome-wide Mendelian randomization and disease-trajectory analyses to assess any associations of circulating Lp( a) levels with a broad range of diseases.

This paper presents and compares alternative transfer learning methods that can increase the power of conditional testing via knockoffs. We apply these methods to analyze several phenotypes in the UK Biobank data set. Transfer learning helps knockoffs discover more associations in the data collected from minority populations.

Air pollution was associated with a higher risk of dementia among nonsmokers but not current smokers. Additional studies are required to confirm our findings and to explore the potential mechanisms underlying the possible effect modification by smoking status.

Little is known about the impact of daily physical activity timing on cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. We aimed to examined the associations between chronoactivity and multiple CVD outcomes in the UK Biobank.

High BMI is associated with many comorbidities and mortality. This study aimed to elucidate the overall clinical risk of obesity using a genome- and phenome-wide approach. Class 3 obesity was associated with 433 phenotypes.

The extent to which genetic interactions affect observed phenotypes is generally unknown. Current interaction detection approaches only consider simple interactions between top SNPs of genes. We introduce an open-source framework for increasing the power of interaction detection.

ApoA1 is the principal protein component of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) Low HDL cholesterol levels are known to be associated with greater cardiovascular risk. Recent studies have shown heightened mortality risk at very high HDL-C levels.

Hypertension appears to be one of the commonest comorbidities in COVID-19 patients. It is unclear whether the absolute level of systolic blood pressure, or the type of anti-hypertensive medication is related to this risk.

Epilepsy (EP) and congenital heart disease (CHD) are apparently unrelated diseases that display substantial mutual comorbidity. Although genetic determinants have been postulated to underlie EP and CHD, the precise genetic etiology is unknown. We performed variant and gene association analyses using whole exomes of genetically identified Europeans.

The emergence of genetic data coupled to longitudinal electronic medical records offers the possibility of phenome-wide association studies. In PheWAS, the whole phenome can be divided into numerous phenotypic categories according to the genetic architecture across phenotypes. The proposed method involves three steps. In the third step, we propose a new false discovery rate (FDR) control approach.

Gene expression is tightly regulated, with many genes exhibiting cell-specific silencing when their protein product would disrupt normal cellular function. This silencing is largely controlled by non-coding elements, and their disruption might cause human disease. We performed gene-agnostic screening to discover new molecular causes of congenital hyperinsulinism. This identified 14 de novo variants affecting a 42-bp conserved region encompassed by a regulatory element in intron 2 of the hexokinase 1 gene (HK1)

Equity is widely held to be fundamental to the ethics of healthcare. Yet no general framework for its quantification, let alone assurance, currently exists. Here we formulate epistemic equity in terms of model fidelity evaluated over learnt multidimensional representations of identity crafted to maximise diversity of the population.

Deformable image registration (DIR) can be used to track cardiac motion. Conventional DIR algorithms aim to establish a dense and non-linear correspondence between independent pairs of images. They are computationally intensive and do not consider temporal dependencies.

Sarcopenia involves the degeneration of muscle strength, muscle mass and physical performance. It remains unknown whether air pollution exposure increases the risk of sarcopenia.

The findings regarding whether the greater iron level or intake is a risk factor to Parkinson's disease (PD) or parkinsonism was not clear. We conducted a large-scale prospective cohort study using comprehensive longitudinal data from the UK Biobank. Analyses revealed that (a) iron supplementation was significantly associated with higherParkinsonism risk, and (b) greater hemoglobin was weakly and insignificantly associated with lower parkinsonist risk.

Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder involves loss of passive range of motion with associated pain. Known risk factors include diabetes, female sex, and thyroid dysfunction. Genome-wide association study (GWAS) was conducted using the U.K. Biobank.

Chlamydia pneumoniae (C. pneumoniae) is implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) Chlamydial elementary and reticulate bodies have been identified in tissues from afflicted AD brain regions.

Parkinson's disease is 1.5 times more prevalent in males than females. Work has been done to identify the genetic risk factors behind Parkinson's disease on autosomes and more recently on Chromosome X. But work remains to be done on the male-specific Y chromosome.

We construct a polygenic health index as a weighted sum of polygenic risk scores for 20 major disease conditions. Individuals with higher index scores have decreased disease risk across almost all 20 diseases. Correlations between genetic disease risks are found to be mostly positive and generally mild.

The Prism Vote (PV) views the trait of an individual as a composite risk from subpopulations. Since each individual is described by a composition of subpopulation memberships, the framework enables individualized risk characterization. The advantage of PV enlarges as genetic heterogeneity and sample size increase.

Women with a family history of ovarian cancer or a pathogenic or likely pathogenic gene variant are at high risk of the disease. But very few women have these risk factors. We assessed whether a combined polygenic and clinical risk score could predict risk.

Aggregation of genome-wide common risk variants, such as polygenic risk score (PRS), can measure genetic susceptibility to cancer. Meta-analyses across cancer types in The Cancer Genome Atlas revealed that higher PRS values were associated with earlier cancer onset and lower burden of somatic alterations.

The menopause transition involves changes in oestrogen and adipose tissue distribution. These changes may influence female brain health post-menopause. It is unclear whether different types of adipose tissues play diverging roles.

Genes with moderate to low expression heritability may explain a large proportion of complex trait etiology. Such genes cannot be sufficiently captured in conventional transcriptome-wide association studies (TWASs) We introduce a method, the Summary-level Unified Method for Modeling Integrated Transcriptome (SUMMIT), to improve TWAS accuracy.

The SCN1B c.363C>G (p.Cys121Trp) variant has been identified in independent, multi-generational families with GEFS+. Although the variant is present in population databases (at very low frequency), there is strong clinical, genetic, and functional evidence to support pathogenicity.

A greater sense of meaning and purpose in life is associated with lower dementia risk. The present research examines meaning and incident dementia in the largest sample to date, the UK Biobank.

Mendelian randomization is the use of genetic variants to assess the existence of a causal relationship between a risk factor and an outcome of interest. We review methods for variable selection and estimation in cis-MR with summary-level data. We conclude by examining two case studies, assessing the effects of low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol and serum testosterone on coronary heart disease risk.

We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in 424,120 genotyped participants of the UK Biobank. Among 21,176 T2D and 402,944 non-T2D samples from UKB, stratified GWAS identified 19 and 315 genomic risk loci significantly associated with TG levels. The lead variant is located 2Kb upstream of the HLA-DQB1 gene.

Many studies have utilized physical activity for predicting mortality risk, using measures such as participant walk tests and self-reported walking pace. The rise of passive monitors to measure participant activity without requiring specific actions opens the possibility for population level analysis.

Risk of periodontal disease was higher in people with psychosis. Patients with a clinical diagnosis had the highest proportion of disease. Lifestyle factors (smoking) and comorbidities (cardiovascular, cancer or respiratory disease) were associated with disease among people with a history of psychosis.

Breast cancer (BC) is one of the most prevalent cancers worldwide but its etiology remains unclear. Obesity is recognized as a risk factor for BC, and many obesity-related genes may be involved in its occurrence and development. This study sought to construct a gene interaction network to identify potential pathogenic BC genes. The identified genes were mainly involved in energy regulation and fat-related signaling pathways.

Lifestyle risk behaviours such as smoking, physical inactivity, and unhealthy diet account for a considerable disease burden globally. These risk behaviours tend to cluster within an individual, which could have detrimental health effects. In this study, we aimed to examine the clustering effect of lifestyle risk behaviours on cardiovascular disease (CVD) and CVD risk among adults in the UK.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is disproportionately prevalent in bipolar disorder (BD) and is associated with cognitive deficits in psychiatrically healthy cohorts. Whether there is an interaction effect between T2D and BD on cognition remains unclear. Using the UK Biobank, we explored interactions between T1D, BD and cognition.

Genetic associations with measures of local brain folding are largely under-explored. We found 388 regional brain folding associations across 77 genetic loci. We integrated brain eQTLs to refine genes for various loci, implicated several genes involved in neurodevelopmental disorders, and highlighted global genetic correlations with neuropsychiatric phenotypes.

The prevalence of some immune-mediated diseases (IMDs) shows distinct differences between populations of different ethnicities. The aim of this study was to determine if the age at diagnosis of common IMDs differed between different ethnic groups in the UK.

A retrospective MRI dataset pooled from more than 217 sites/scanners constituted one of the largest brain MRI samples to date. The model fine-tuned for AD classification achieved 90.9% accuracy in leave-sites-out cross-validation. Predicted scores from the AD classifier showed significant correlations with illness severity.

Proportional Odds LOgistic model for NEtwork regression in Transcriptome-wide association study. It uses pointwise mutual information to represent the general relationship among the network nodes of predicted gene expression. The model can simultaneously identify the disease-related network nodes or edges.

Evidence on pancreatic cancer (PaCa) risk factors from large population-based cohort studies is limited. This study investigated the PaCa risk factors and the population attributable fraction (PAF) of modifiable risk factors in the UK Biobank cohort. The PAF suggested that eliminating smoking and obesity can contribute around a 16% reduction in PaCa cases. Preventing pancreatitis and DM could potentially reduce PaCa Cases by 1% and 6%, respectively.

Cognitive and functional measures in individuals who subsequently developed Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson disease, frontotemporal dementia, progressive supranuclear palsy, dementia with Lewy bodies, or multiple system atrophy were compared against individuals without neurodegenerative diagnoses. Pre-diagnostic functional impairment and decline were observed in multiple diseases.

There has been an increasing interest in the possible role of infectious agents in the brain in the pathogenesis of dementia. We evaluated the association between seropositivity status of all viruses available in a large, population-based dataset (the UK Biobank) and dementia risk. Of the 15 viruses investigated, our results showed a statistically significant increase of dementia risk associated only with HSV1.

Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency associated liver disease (AATD-LD) is a rare genetic disorder and not well-recognized. We aimed to develop a tailored machine learning (ML) model to predict the disease progression. The proposed stacking ensemble ML model showed clinically meaningful accuracy.

Polygenic scores (PGS) are becoming an increasingly popular approach to predict complex disease risk. PGS hold the potential to develop insight into the molecular profiles of patients with an elevated genetic predisposition to disease. We sought to construct an atlas of associations between 125 different PGS derived using results from genome-wide association studies.

Study aimed to evaluate the association of dietary iron intake with incident dementia and brain iron deposition. Included dementia-free participants from the UK Biobank who completed at least one 24-hour dietary recall at study baseline.

Digital gait biomarkers (including walking speed) indicate functional decline and predict hospitalization and mortality. waist or lower-limb devices often used are not designed for continuous life-long use. With the almost universal uptake of smart-watches, our algorithms offer a new approach.

Multimorbidity generally refers to concurrent occurrence of multiple chronic conditions. These patients are inherently at high risk and often lead a poor quality of life due to delayed treatments. With the emergence of personalized medicine and stratified healthcare, there is a need to stratify patients right at the primary care setting.

Postpartum depression was more weakly associated with adulthood trauma and neuroticism. Depression following diagnosis of a chronic disease had weaker association with neuroticism and reported trauma in adulthood and childhood.

Previous studies found that cancer survivors had a reduced risk of dementia. However, these findings were uncertain because of survivor bias and a lack of stratification by cancer types. This current cohort study used data from the UK Biobank to explore these associations.

A discordant twin study of 120 monozygotic (MZ) and 148 dizygotic (DZ) twin pairs from the UK Biobank explored the potential causal relationships between birth weight and later-life cardiometabolic risk factors. We found no strong evidence of association in MZ twins between the within-pair differences in birth height and most cardiometric risk factors in later life.

 complex machine learning models can capture non-linear interrelations and provide opportunities to identify unexplored risk factors. Explainable artificial intelligence can improve prediction accuracy over linear models and reveal great insights into outcomes like mortality.

Study aimed to assess the relationship between different sleep patterns and tinnitus. Cross-sectional analysis using baseline data (2006-2010, n = 168,064) by logistic regressions was conducted.

Metabolic syndrome (MetS) and its components have been shown as risk factors for several solid cancers. However, current epidemiological evidence about the relevance of MetS and bladder cancer risk was limited. We conducted a prospective cohort study of 476,986 participants with undiagnosed bladder cancer based on the UK Biobank.

Copy number variations (CNVs) conferring risk for mental disorders are associated with brain changes and cognitive deficits. Whether these effects are shared or distinct across CNVs remains untested. Here we compared the effects on brain morphometry and cognitive performance across CNV with shared psychiatric liability.

It is well-known that mental health is associated with the risk of developing cardiovascular disease. The main purpose of this study was to assess capability of mental health factors along with traditional risk factors to be used in cardiovascular predictive machine learning models. We developed a combined machine learning approach using both traditional risk and psychological factors.

Obesity has been associated with increased heart failure (HF) risk. This study investigated associations between various adiposity measures and incidence of different HF subtypes.

The UK Biobank is a large prospective multicentre study which recruited over 500,000 participants in the UK aged 37-73 years at entry between 2006-2010. A total of 12,853 participants underwent a first coronary angioplasty during the study period, with 1,394 requiring RR over a median follow-up of 6.5 years. Lipoprotein(a) >80nmol/L was one of six independent predictors of time to RR (HR 1.24, p=0.006), independent of other lipids. LDL, HDL, and triglyceride levels were not significant predictors in this model.

Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) were found to increase the risk of pancreatic cancer in a mouse model and human clinical cohorts. Serum gastrin levels were increased 8-fold (P)

Multi-Ancestry TwaS (MATS) framework jointly analyzes samples from multiple populations. It distinguishes between shared, ancestry-specific and/or subject-specific expression-trait associations. MATS amplifies power to detect shared GEx associations over ancestry-stratified TWAS.

The purpose of this study is to characterize the impact of the timing and duration of missing actigraphy data on interdaily stability (IS) and intradaily variability (IV) calculation. IV and IS were calculated for true, masked, and imputed timeseries data and used to generate Bland-Alman plots for each condition.

Air pollution has been frequently linked to a range of cardiometabolic diseases. Our results highlight clean air as an upstream approach to mitigate both initiation and progression of CMM. Older participants, males and individuals with excessive alcohol drinking and lower economic levels were more likely to experience these risks.

Deep Learning (DL) has been broadly applied to solve big data problems in biomedical fields. Recently, many DL methods have been applied to analyze genomic studies. However, genomic data usually has too small a sample size to fit a complex network.

Red wine and champagne/white wine consumption were inversely associated with waist circumference (WC) for both sexes. Alcohol consumption was associated with a lower risk of obesity incidence in women. Female and male spirit drinkers had higher WC than non-spirit drinkers.

The study included 359,489 participants without a previous diagnosis of cancer. We used the Fine-Gray regression model to predict the incident risk of liver cancer, accounting for the competing risk of all-cause death. The model had good discrimination, calibration and clinical utility.

Back pain is the leading cause of years lived with disability worldwide. Little is known regarding the biology underlying this condition. We discovered 2 genes, SOX5 and PANX3 , influencing chronic back pain.

Cancer has contributed to an increasing proportion of diabetes-related deaths. Lifestyle management is the cornerstone of both diabetes care and cancer prevention. We aimed to evaluate the associations of combined healthy lifestyles with total and site-specific cancer risks.

Caffeinated coffee drinkers had lower odds for rosacea diagnosis compared to non-coffee drinkers. We hypothesize that the vasoconstrictive effects of caffeine in regular coffee overpower the vasodilatory effects associated with hot beverages.

Theories and empirical evidence document the importance of early life environmental factors on later life cognition. Using data from the UK Biobank in conjunction with time-place-specific infant mortality rates, we assessed heterogeneous and non-linear associations. We found that the association between the infant mortality rate and later. life cognition increased once the UK achieved very low infant. mortality rates.

Mixed effects of fish oil supplementation on the risks of atrial fibrillation were observed in several large-scale randomized controlled trials. Whether this relationship would be modified by genetic AF risk, baseline cardiovascular disease (CVD) status and background oily fish consumption are unknown. We included 468 665 participants without AF at baseline from the UK Biobank cohort.

Among 502,493 participants from the UK Biobank, baseline data were extracted for 4171 factors spanning 10 different categories. Higher levels of education, body size, basal metabolic rate, fat-free mass, computer use, and cognitive functions were associated with a decreased risk of developing AD. Strong evidence was found for selective food intake and more outdoor exposures as new risk factors for AD.

A nested case-control study was conducted in East London using primary care health records. 1,055 patients with PD and 10,550 controls were included. The strongest associations were found for tremor and memory complaints. Convincing novel associations were observed for epilepsy and hearing loss with subsequent PD.

Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis can produce biased results if the genetic variant defining an instrumental variable (IV) is confounded or has a horizontal pleiotropic effect. We provide novel identification conditions for the causal effect of a treatment in the presence of unmeasured confounding by leveraging a possibly invalid IV.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) underlying case-control design have uncovered hundreds of genetic loci involved in tumorigenesis. However, application of GWAS in determining the genetic architecture of cancer survival remains unestablished. Here, we systematically evaluated genetic effects at the genome-wide level on cancer survival.

Polygenic risk scores quantify the individual genetic predisposition regarding a particular trait. We propose and illustrate the application of existing statistical learning methods to derive sparser models for genome-wide data with a polygenic signal. Our approach is based on three consecutive steps.

Existing methods are unable to address type I error inflation induced by increased correlation of phenotypes among closely related samples. We show through simulation studies and analysis of UK Biobank data of white British samples that the proposed method is robust and yields better calibration.

Previous studies investigating the relationship between aspirin use and subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) have yielded conflicting results. In this study, we aimed to clarify the association between aspirin and SAH in the general population.

Neighborhood environments may influence cancer risk. Improving neighborhood environments could inadvertently widen health inequalities if important differences are overlooked. Most notably, more greenspace near home was associated with 16% lower hazard of cancer-related hospital admission in deprived areas.

Study examined association of long and short sleep duration with risk of Parkinson's disease (PD) across RORA rs2028122 genotypes. Sleep duration exhibited a curvilinear U-shaped correlation with the risk of PD. Among GG carriers, habitual short sleepers have a higher risk ofPD compared with habitual normal sleepers.

Disease-associated single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) generally do not implicate target genes, as most disease SNPs are regulatory. Many SNP-to-gene (S2G) linking strategies have been developed to link regulatory SNPs to the genes that they regulate in cis. We developed a heritability-based framework for evaluating and combining different S2G strategies to optimize their informativeness.

Study: Modifiable risk factors are associated with aortic valve stenosis (AVS) 1602 participants developed AVS during an 8.4-year follow-up. Genetically predicted 1-SD higher levels of body mass index, body fat percentage, and serum total cholesterol were associated with higher risk of AVS.

There was a higher risk of CVD among South Asian and Black participants. Compared with White participants, the associations of BMI, triglycerides, and HbA1c with CVD were stronger in South Asians. Adiposity is an important risk factor for CVD regardless of ethnicity.

Data were from a prospective cohort of 362,094 UK Biobank participants. After a median follow-up of 9.0 years, 4149 (1.15%) individuals were diagnosed with dementia. Cox hazard regression models showed a marked increase in risk at low exposure.

Study compared a variety of global brain measures between participants with isolated hypertension to those with normal blood pressure. Isolated systolic hypertensives had larger total gray matter and smaller white matter traits when comparing these regions with participants with syStolic-diastolic hypertension.

 Genetic predisposition and unhealthy lifestyle are risk factors for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) We investigated whether the genetic risk of NAFLD is modified by physical activity, muscular fitness, and/or adiposity. We found that increased physical activity and grip strength modestly attenuate genetic predisposition to elevation in ALT levels. Higher BMI markedly amplifies it.

Large-scale genome-wide association studies have identified hundreds of single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) significantly associated with coronary artery disease (CAD) These SNVs include T (control region) and m.12612A>G (ND5), found more frequently in cases (OR = 1.05), potentially related to reduced cardiorespiratory fitness in response to exercise.

Whole-exome sequencing analysis of >350,000 UK Biobank participants revealed that protein-truncating variants in four genes are negatively associated with human lifespan. Phenome-wide analyses confirm roles for these genes in cancer and clonal hematopoiesis.

The importance of quantifying the distribution and determinants of multimorbidity has prompted novel data-driven classifications of disease. Applications have included improved statistical power and refined prognoses for a range of respiratory, infectious, autoimmune, and neurological diseases.

Leukocyte telomere length (LTL) is a proposed marker of biological age. LTL is markedly longer in African and Chinese ancestries. Older age and male sex associate with shorter LTL. Age, ethnicity, sex and white cell count explain 5.5% of LTL variance.

Large-scale sequencing and genotyping data provide an opportunity to integrate external samples as controls to improve power of association tests. naively aggregating the controls could lead to inflation in Type I error rates. We propose an iECAT-Score region-based test that increases power for rare-variant tests.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a preeminent cause of death. Smoking is a strong risk factor for CAD. Genetic factors contribute to the development of CAD. The interplay between genetic predisposition and smoking history in CAD remains unclear.

Identifying promising drug targets for human aging using genetics has had limited success. In the present study, we combine six European-ancestry genome-wide association studies of human aging traits. The first principal component (aging-GIP1) captures both length of life and indices of mental and physical wellbeing.

Physical inactivity (PA) is an important risk factor for a wide range of diseases. Previous genome-wide association studies have identified a limited number of genetic loci associated with habitual PA. In this study, we derived 27 PA phenotypes from wrist accelerometry data obtained from 88,411 UK Biobank study participants.

Study performed individual-centric, data-driven calculations of propensity for coronary heart disease (CHD) and type 2 diabetes (T2D) Using magnetic resonance imaging-acquired body composition measurements, for sub-phenotyping of obesity and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)

An increased susceptibility to COVID-19 has been suggested for individuals with neurodegenerative diseases, but data are scarce from longitudinal studies. We included 96,275 participants of the UK Biobank who had available SARS-CoV-2 test results in Public Health England. Logistic regression was applied to estimate the association between neurogenerative disease and risks of CO VID-19.

The associations of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) with risk of site-specific cancers beyond lymphohematopoietic cancer have been scarcely explored. We conducted a Mendelian randomization investigation of the associations of RA with site- specific cancers in European and East Asian populations.

Physical activity could reduce the risk of CMM incidence. Participants initially free of cardiometabolic diseases (CMDs) may benefit more from engaging in recommended physical activity. Adults should engage in WHO-recommended physical activity as early as possible to prevent CMD incidence.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is considered as the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome. Cox proportional hazard model was used to analyze the association between NAFLD and all-cause mortality, major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs), CVD mortality, fatal/nonfatal acute myocardial infarction (AMI), and fatal/ nonfatal stroke.

Normative modelling is becoming more popular in neuroimaging due to its ability to make predictions of deviation from a normal trajectory at the level of individual participants. So far, most normative modelling approaches used Gaussian process regression, and although suitable for smaller datasets, it does not scale well to the large cohorts currently available and being acquired.

Half of patients with a ciliopathy syndrome remain unsolved after initial analysis of whole exome sequencing (WES) data. By candidate gene curation of WES data, combined with homozygosity mapping, we detected a homozygous predicted synonymous allele in NPHP3 in two children with hepatorenal fibrocystic disease from a consanguineous family. Remarkably, the same rare variant was detected in four additional families with hepatoreal disease.

Existing methods may suffer from substantial power loss because expression of many genes tends to be consistent across tissues. Integrative Test for Associations via Cauchy Transformation (InTACT) combines information across multiple tissues. InTACT identified 227 genome-wide significant genes, of which 130 were not identified by benchmark methods.

Myocardial infarction can be determined by late enhancement cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging, which requires the injection of a potentially harmful gadolinium-based contrast agent. Emerging research in the area of myocardial strain has shown potential to identify MI using strain values.

People born in winter and early spring are at an elevated risk for schizophrenia. We used PRS analysis of the UK Biobank (UKBB) to determine whether season of birth is associated with genetic risk. We found no association between schizophrenia PRS andSeason of birth. There was no evidence that seasonality is a heritable trait.

Traditional multiple testing procedures prohibit adaptive analysis choices made by users. Goeman and Solari proposed a simultaneous inference framework that allows users such flexibility while preserving high-probability bounds.

The UK Biobank is a large-scale health resource comprising genetic, environmental, and medical information on approximately 500,000 volunteer participants. The project monitors the health and well-being of its participants. This work demonstrates how these data can be used to yield the building blocks for an interpretable risk-prediction model.

Inhalation of ambient aerosols can exacerbate or promote the development of cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases. Occupational exposure to dust, fumes and diesel exhaust particulates can also cause adverse health outcomes. An individual's job title has normally been identified as a major determinant of workplace exposure.

Birth weight has important associations with life outcomes ranging from infant mortality to cognition to adult stature. Since birth weight and such developmental outcomes may share a genetic etiology, here we compare estimates of the effect of birth weight on traits with and without controls for genotype.

A typical task arising from a Genome Wide Association Study (GWAS) is to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that are likely causal variants and the affected genes. Functional genomics data from relevant tissues are believed to be helpful in selecting likely causal SNPs and interpreting implicated biological mechanisms.

The 21-point Brain Care Score (BCS) was developed to promote behavior changes and lifestyle choices. We aimed to assess the associations of the BCS with risk of incident dementia and stroke. The BCS was derived from the United Kingdom Biobank.

HapNe infers recent population size fluctuations using either IBD sharing or linkage disequilibrium. It does not require phasing and can be computed in low coverage data. HapNe shows improved accuracy in a range of simulated demographic scenarios.

A history of pregnancy loss is associated with the development of cardiovascular diseases. The association between RPL and subsequent MS is poorly understood. Women with a history of RPL have a higher prevalence of MS between the ages of 40 and 60 years.

The long-term impact of maternal smoking during pregnancy on the risk of Crohn's disease [CD] and ulcerative colitis in adult offspring remains uncertain. We conducted a prospective cohort study using UK Biobank data, including 334 083 participants recruited between 2006 and 2010, with follow-up until December 31, 2021.

Modifiable risk factor estimates are sparse for early-onset dementia incidence. This study aimed to estimate and compare the risk factor profiles of early-ONSet dementia and late-ONset dementia. It also explored the complex relationships between socioeconomic status, lifestyles, and early-ONSet dementia risk. Between 2007 and 2010, 257 345 individuals were included in the analysis of late-onsets dementia.

Stroke and dementia are major neurological disorders that contribute significantly to disease burden. There is currently no study investigating the influence of residential greenspace on the trajectory of these neurological disorders. Exposure to greenspace was measured by the percentage of total greenspace coverage within a 300-meter buffer zone surrounding the participants' residences.

 LS-imputation has been proposed for large-scale trait imputation based on a GWAS summary dataset and a large set of genotyped individuals. The current method imposes a working assumption that the imputed trait values are identically and independently distributed. Here we propose a "divide and conquer/combine" strategy to estimate and account for the covariance matrix.

There is a need for gene-environment interaction-specific methods that manipulate and use summary statistics. We introduce two tools to facilitate such analysis. We demonstrate the value and efficiency of these tools by exploring alternative methods of accounting for ancestry-related population stratification.

Hepatotoxicity is one of the most concerning sequelae of cancer. This study examined the potential supplement-drug interactions involving the hepatic system, and their associations with documented liver diseases, among patients with cancer in the UK Biobank.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the leading causes of cancer death worldwide. It is important to identify risk factors that may be used to help reduce morbidity and mortality of the disease. We used a case-control study design to explore the association between CRC, polygenic risk scores (PRS), and other factors.

Deep learning (DL) models have shown promise in detecting chronic kidney disease (CKD) from fundus photographs. Previous studies have utilized a serum creatinine-only estimated glomerular rate (eGFR) equation to measure kidney function.

Study looked at relationship between metabolomic profiles, genome-wide polygenic risk scores and risk of rheumatoid arthritis. 143 nuclear magnetic resonance-based plasma metabolic biomarkers were measured among 93 800 participants in the UK Biobank.

Oral health problem is prevalent in the elderly population which is also at high risk of Parkinson's disease (PD) However, the association between self-reported oral health and PD is still unclear. Participants were enrolled in the UK Biobank from 2006 to 2010 and those without PD at baseline were included in the study.

Left ventricular regional wall thickness (LVRWT) is an independent predictor of morbidity and mortality in cardiovascular diseases. We established a novel deep learning algorithm to calculate 12 LVRWTs accurately in 42,194 individuals from the UK Biobank.

Study aimed to examine whether younger onset age of CHD is associated with a higher risk of incident dementia. Data were obtained from the UK Biobank. Compared with participants without CHD, participants with CHD exhibited higher risks of developing all-cause dementia, Alzheimer's disease, and vascular dementia.

"successful cognitive aging" stands as a hallmark of individuals who exhibit cognitive abilities surpassing those of their age-matched counterparts. In this study, a highly selective cohort of 1060 individuals aged 65 and above was meticulously curated from a larger pool of 17,072 subjects. The selection process was guided by their striking cognitive resilience, ascertained via rigorous evaluation.

A total of 466 224 UK Biobank participants were investigated. Folate/folic acid supplementation alone was significantly associated with a higher risk of AD and VD. However, when combined with other B vitamins, these detrimental effects can be counteracted.

Greater adherence to lifestyle-based recommendations was associated with reduced risk of all cancers combined and of breast, colorectal, kidney, oesophageal, ovarian, liver, and gallbladder cancers. Our findings support compliance with the Cancer Prevention Recommendations for cancer prevention in the UK.

Developing a single-domain assay to identify individuals at high risk of future events is a priority for multi-disease and mortality prevention. We developed a disease/mortality-specific proteomic risk score based on 1461 Olink plasma proteins measured in 52,006 UK Biobank participants.

Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is an important cause of sudden cardiac death. There is no systematic framework for classifying morphology or assessing associated risks. We used machine learning to analyze the 3-dimensional structure of the left ventricle from cardiac magnetic resonance imaging and build a tree-based classification of HCM phenotypes.

The branched chain amino acids (BCAA) leucine, isoleucine and valine are essential nutrients that have been associated with diabetes, cancers, and cardiovascular diseases. Observational studies suggest that BCAAs exert homogeneous phenotypic effects, but these findings are inconsistent with results from experimental human and animal studies. Almost half (44% n = 52) are associated with only one BCAA.

Iron deficiency anaemia (IDA) and deferral due to hypohaemoglobinemia (Hb-deferral) are unclear. In this investigation, we aimed to quantify the value of genetic information in predicting IDA and Hb- deferral. We analysed genetic data from up to 665,460 participants of the FinnGen and Blood Service Biobank.

Study examined 34 260 men without a history of prostate cancer in the UK Biobank. Sleep characteristics were measured over 7 days using actigraphy. Sleep midpoint earlier than 4:00 am was not associated with prostate cancer risk.

Evidence regarding the association between physical activity and Parkinson's disease (PD) risk is generally limited due to the use of self-report questionnaires. We aimed to quantify the separate and combined effects of accelerometer-measured light physical activity, moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA), sedentary time and exercise timing with incident PD.

Plant-based diets are becoming increasingly popular due to favourable environmental footprints. They have been associated with lower risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) Here, we investigated the potential mechanisms to explain the lower T2DM risk.

Genetic risks for schizophrenia are theoretically mediated by genetic effects on brain structure. It has been unclear which genes are associated with both schizophrenia and cortical phenotypes. We accessed genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of schizophrenia and of three magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) metrics.

The role of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) as a mediator in the association between various unhealthy lifestyles and major adverse cardiovascular events and all-cause death remains unclear. This study used data from the UK Biobank, with follow-up until end of 2021.

The extent to which the phenotypic effects of common and rare variants involve shared molecular mediators remains poorly understood. We developed a metric, the COmmon variant and RAre variant Convergence (CORAC) signature, to quantify the convergence for a broad range of complex traits. We found that the signature is positively correlated with effective sample size.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is an escalating global health crisis. Dyslipidemia stands as a critical risk factor for CVD. Vascular endothelial growth factor A ( VEGFA ) is pivotal in angiogenesis. However, the impact of genetic modulation of VEG FA on lipid levels and the subsequent risk of cardiovascular events remains unclear.

Study included 98 893 UK Biobank participants whose PA data were measured using wrist-worn accelerometers. During the follow-up period 282 incident CAs (0.39 per 1000 person-years) occurred. Total PA was inversely related to CA risk.

Low back pain (LBP) is a major public health issue that influences physical and emotional factors integral to the limbic system. This study aims to investigate the association between LBP and brain morphometry alterations as the duration of LBP increases. We found that acute LBP was associated with increased volumes of the nucleus accumbens, amygdala, hippocampus and thalamus.

Sleep and depression have a complex, bidirectional relationship, with sleep-associated alterations in brain dynamics and structure impacting a range of symptoms and cognitive abilities. Previous work describing these relationships has provided an incomplete picture. We analyze the correlations between brainwide neural signatures of sleep, cognition, and depression in task and resting-state data.

Ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast (DCIS) is a nonobligate precursor of IBC and shares several risk factors with it. We studied the association between circulating levels of TC, LDL-C, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), Lipoprotein (a) (Lp-(a), IGF-1, CRP and HbA1c, with the risk of DCIS in 156801women aged 40 to 69 years and breast cancer-free at enrolment.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a debilitating neurodegenerative disease. In patients carrying genetic mutations, elevations in neurofilament light (NfL) have been shown to precede symptom onset. The natural history of NfL in general ALS patients is less characterized.

Time spent outdoors has a small genetic component that tracked from childhood to adulthood. Accounting for the effects of time outdoors reduced the estimated causal effect of education on myopia by 40%. These results suggest about half of the relationship between education and myopia may be mediated by children not being outdoors during schooling.

Middle-aged persons with epilepsy (PWE) are under investigated regarding their mortality risk and burden of cardiovascular disease. Sudden death is the leading cause of mortality in medically refractory epilepsy.

Lung function measures are associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD) However, the added predictive values of these measures remain unclear. In the UK Biobank, 308 415 participants free of CVD with spirometry parameters were included.

Glucosamine supplementation is common but can be associated with increased intraocular pressure (IOP) This could contribute to the pathogenesis of glaucoma. Ophthalmologists should elicit any history of glucosamine use from their patients and advise them accordingly.

Genetic variants in the coding region could directly affect the structure and expression levels of genes and proteins. However, the importance of variants in non-coding region, such as microRNAs (miRNAs), remain to be elucidated. We investigated associations between 346 genetic variants in miRNA-related sequences and a wide range of clinical diagnoses.

Smoking cessation's effect on albuminuria depends on pack-years smoked, length of abstinence, body mass index (BMI) and glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) UK Biobank cohort with urinary albumin concentration (UAC) in the first and second visits. Prevalence ofalbuminuria highest in ex-smokers who started smoking between the ages of 13 and 18.

Movement behaviours, including physical activity, sedentary behaviour, and sleep have been shown to be associated with several chronic diseases. We aim to describe the patterns of device-measured movement behaviours collected in the China Kadoorie Biobank study.

Dystonia is a hyperkinetic movement disorder with key motor network dysfunction. The UK Biobank encompasses > 500,000 participants, of whom 42,565 underwent brain MRI scanning. This study applied an optimized pre-processing pipeline aimed at better accounting for artifact and improving data reliability.

Study aimed to examine the association between tea and coffee consumption and the likelihood of all-cause and cause-specific mortality in patients with MetS. A total of 118,872 participants with metabolic syndrome at baseline from the UK Biobank cohort were included.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) predictions often show bias toward the population of available genome-wide association studies (GWASs) This study aimed to assess the performance differences of ancestry-specific PRS and multi-ancestry PRS to enhance the generalizability of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol predictions in the East Asian population.

Irregular sleep-wake timing may cause circadian disruption leading to several chronic age-related diseases. We examined the relationship between sleep regularity and risk of all-cause, cardiovascular disease (CVD), and cancer mortality in 88,975 participants from the UK Biobank cohort.

BMI is a surrogate measure of adiposity. Whether cancer risk is different among adults with and without cardiovascular diseases (CVD) and/or type 2 diabetes (T2D) is unclear. The primary aim of this study was to evaluate separate and joint associations of BMI and CVD/T2d with the risk of cancer.

Study aimed to contrast associations of five diet scores with severe non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) incidence. In total, 162 999 UK Biobank participants were included in this prospective population-based study. The lowest risk was observed in quartile 4 for the MEDAS-14 score.

To explore the correlation and causality between multidimensional sleep traits and pan-cancer incidence and mortality among patients with cancer. The multivariable Cox regression, linear and nonlinear Mendelian randomization (MR), and survival curve analyses were conducted to assess the impacts of chronotype, sleep duration, and insomnia symptoms.

Dynamic functional networks (DFN) have considerably advanced modelling of the brain communication processes. The prevailing implementation capitalizes on system and network-level correlations between time series. This approach does not account for the continuous impact of non-dynamic dependencies within the statistical correlation.

Several prospective cohort studies have examined the relationships between circulating omega-3 and incident dementia. In the largest study to date on this topic, we confirmed the favorable relationships between DHA and risk for dementia. We also found evidence that non-DHA omega- 3 may be beneficial.

We assessed the association between exposure to various air pollutants, individually or jointly, and incident kidney stones. 453,977 participants without prior kidney stones from the UK Biobank were included. During a median follow-up of 11.9 years, 5,375 kidney stones were recorded. The association between air pollution and kidney stones was statistically significant only in participants within intermediate-high kidney stone.

Large-scale longitudinal biobank data can be leveraged to identify genetic variation contributing to human diseases progression and traits trajectories. While methods for genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of multiple correlated traits have been proposed, an efficient multiple-trait approach to model longitudinal phenotypes is not currently available. We developed a mixed-effects model to fit longitudinal outcomes where a fast algorithm for inversion was introduced.

The 16-item PHQ-ADS scale could be reduced to a 7-item scale without loss of test information. Items measuring somatic symptoms were discarded. The revised scale showed high discrimination and scalability.

More than 83% of the world's population lives under light-polluted skies. Information about health effects of outdoor light at night (LAN) is limited. We examined the association of LAN with natural cause (NC) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality.

The gut microbiota is closely related to liver diseases. The dietary pattern associated with sulfur-metabolizing bacteria in stool has been found to influence intestinal health. We aimed to investigate whether consuming the sulfur microbial diet is associated with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)

Genome-wide association studies is an essential tool for analyzing associations between phenotypes and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) Most of binary phenotypes in large biobanks are extremely unbalanced, which leads to inflated type I error rates for many widely used association tests. We propose a novel approach, MLN with Omnibus (MLN-O), to jointly analyse the association between phenotype and a SNP.

Ever smoking, higher cigarette consumption daily, and increased smoking intensity were associated with an increased BP risk. This association was stronger in female smokers. Not smoking, smoking cessation, and reducing smoking volume and intensity were effective measures to prevent BP.

Low handgrip strength and slow walking pace were significantly associated with a higher risk of incident PD, regardless of the individuals' genetic risk profile. A lower grip strength and an average/slow walking pace accounted for 23.8% and 19.9% of PD cases.

Whole genome sequencing (WGS) from large clinically unselected cohorts provides a unique opportunity to assess the penetrance and expressivity of rare and/or known pathogenic mitochondrial variants in population. Heteroplasmic m.3243A>G was associated with diabetes, deafness and heart failure and 12 homoplasic variants increased aspartate aminotransferase levels.

Genetic determinants of respiratory infections are understudied and poorly understood. We conducted a genome-wide association study in 19,459 hospitalised respiratory infection cases and 101,438 controls from UK Biobank. We followed-up well-imputed top signals from our Stage 1 analysis in 50,912 respiratory infection Cases and 150,442 controls from 11 cohorts.

PAT segmentations were derived from cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) studies. Prevalent (present at time of imaging) and incident (first occurrence after imaging) HF were ascertained using health record linkage. PyRadiomics was utilised to extract 104 radiomics features, of which 28 were chosen after excluding highly correlated ones.

The hypothalamus plays a crucial role in the regulation of physiological, behavioral, and cognitive functions. Despite its importance, only a few small-scale neuroimaging studies have investigated its substructures. We introduce a novel, fast, and fully automated deep-learning method named HypVINN for sub-segmentation of the hypothalamus.

Biobanks often contain several phenotypes relevant to diseases such as major depressive disorder (MDD) Researchers face complex tradeoffs between shallow and deep phenotypes. Here we propose to integrate these phenotypes to combine the benefits of each. We use phenotype imputation to integrate information across hundreds of MDD-relevant phenotypes, which significantly increases genome-wide association study power.

Adherence to healthy dietary patterns can prevent the development of non-communicable diseases and affect life expectancy. Largest gains are obtained from consuming more whole grains, nuts and fruits and less sugar-sweetened beverages and processed meats.

Sociodemographic factors modulate lifestyle behaviours. Both cancer incidence and survival are socio-economically patterned. We found significant variations in adherence to individual recommendations. Education, Townsend deprivation index and ethnicity were also significant factors.

The present analysis included 23,258 individuals (mean age 63 years, 53% women) who participated in the whole body imaging sub-study of the UK Biobank. Higher visceral fat (VAT) was associated with lower LVEF and higher PWASI. Central adiposity measures (waist circumference [WC] and waist-hip ratio [WHR) showed significant inverse association with LVEf.

Study involved 207,301 participants aged between 39 and 72 years from UK biobank. 468 incident cases of all-cause dementia (165 AD, 91 VD and 26 FTD) were reported during a follow-up period of 11.4 years. Participants in the highest quintile (Q) of DII scores reported a higher risk for all- Cause dementia.

Previous studies on the relationship between chronic kidney disease (CKD) and physical activity (PA) mainly relied on subjective PA data and rarely considered the genetic risk. This study aims to thoroughly investigate this relationship by utilizing both accelerometer-measured and questionnaire-me measured PA data. Engaging in strenuous sports, other exercises, walking for pleasure, stair climbing, and heavy DIY were associated with a reduced risk of CKD.

Study looked at 336 559 participants in the UK Biobank cohort, including 157 227 cases of accelerated biological aging and 179 332 controls. Short sleepers had a 7% higher risk (OR = 1.07; 95% CI: 1.03 to 1.11), while long sleepers were 18% more likely to be accelerated. Evening chronotype was linked to higher PhenoAgeAccel risk than morning chronotype.

Phenotypes in biobanks are often missing across many individuals, limiting their utility. We propose AutoComplete, a deep learning-based imputation method to impute or 'fill-in' missing phenotypes in population-scale biobank datasets. When applied to collections of phenotypes measured across ~300,000 individuals from the UK Biobank, AutoComplete substantially improved imputation accuracy.

Adult-onset asthma (AOA) and cardiovascular diseases shared common risk factors and similar pathophysiologic resemblances. American Heart Association unveiled the life's essential 8 (LE8) to promote cardiovascular health (CVH) Study aimed to assess the overall impact of LE8 implementation on AOA prevention.

The association between dietary manganese (Mn) intake and the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) remains unknown. We aimed to investigate the associations of dietary Mn intake with incident VTE. BMI, waist circumference, RDW, CRP, and WBC significantly mediated the association.

Over 10% of the population in Europe and in the United States use sleep medication to manage sleep problems. In a GWAS we identified 27 genetic loci significantly associated with sleep medication. Sleep medications use was epidemiologically related to psychiatric traits in FinnGen.

Chronic airflow obstruction is a key characteristic of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. We investigated whether isolated small airways obstruction is associated with chronic airflow obstruction later in life. We used data from 3957 participants of the multinational Burden of Obstructive Lung Disease study.

Depression is a global health issue, associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and premature death. This study included 314,800 participants from the UK Biobank. Depressive symptoms were assessed using the Patient Health Questionnaire-2 (PHQ-2)

The study was based on the UK Biobank prospective cohort. MetS and its components significantly increased the risk of anxiety. This association may be partially mediated by serum inflammatory indicators.

20,111 UK Biobank cohort participants with lung function measures at baseline (2006-2010) and follow-up (2012-2014) Physical activity (International Physical Activity Questionnaire: low, moderate, high categories), grip strength (dynamometer) and cardiovascular fitness (subsample, submaximal stationary bicycle) data were collected.

Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) is associated with cardio-renal diseases and mortality, but the causal nature of these associations is unclear. We aimed to determine the shape of causal relationships of LDL-C with chronic kidney disease (CKD), atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) and all-cause mortality.

The current knowledge on pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) risk factors is limited. The aim of this study was to analyze the exposome and its interaction with known genetic susceptibility loci, in relation to PDAC risk.

UK Biobank study contains several sources of diagnostic data, including hospital inpatient data and data on self-reported conditions. VTE cases showed little overlap between data sources, with only 6% of reported events for persons with primary-care data being identified by all 3 sources.

In 382,275 UK Biobank Europeans, we investigate how lifestyles interact with polygenic scores (PGS) of cardiometabolic risk factors. Genome-wide interaction analyses pinpoint three genetic variants ( FTO, CETP and TRIB2) The associations between lifestyles and risk factors differ between individuals grouped by the genotype of these variants.

Policy targeting one item of a person's diet does not affect their nutritional intake in a solely additive or subtractive manner. Policies tackling unhealthy diets are more likely to be adopted by governments if there is robust evidence to support them.

The association between different sedentary behaviors and hypertension risk remains unclear. We aimed to explore whether genetic susceptibility to hypertension modifies the relationship, and examine the extent to which the relationship is mediated by body mass index (BMI) and grip strength.

Both genetic and dietary factors play significant roles in the etiology of colorectal cancer (CRC) To evaluate the relationship between certain food exposures and the risk of CRC, we carried out a large-scale association analysis in the UK Biobank. The associations of 139 foods and nutrients' intake with CRC risk were assessed.

Systemic inflammatory markers have been widely used in cancer prognosis prediction. There is limited knowledge regarding their impact on breast cancer risk and their interaction with polygenic risk scores. Women in the highest tertile of neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), systemic immune-inflammation index (SII), and C-reactive protein (CRP) showed an increased risk of breast cancer.

Excess energy intake can lead to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) Relationship between dietary carbohydrate intake and liver fat content remains unclear. UK Biobank participants with no pre-existing diabetes, liver disease or cardiovascular disease reported dietary intake of types of carbohydrates.

The cranial vault in humans is highly variable, clinically relevant, and heritable. Yet its genetic architecture remains poorly understood. Here, we conduct a joint multi-ancestry and admixed multivariate genome-wide association study. We present supporting evidence of regional localization for several genes.

A quarter of dementia events could have a connection with a disadvantageous social environment, especially for those genetically susceptible to dementia. The polysocial risk score (PsRS) could be effectively used in discriminating individuals at high risk of dementia.

Eleven biomarkers were found to be significantly associated with the risk of invasive breast cancer. Serum CRP, testosterone, and IGF-1 have different impacts on the transitions of different breast cancer states. Study confirms the role of chronic inflammation and endogenous hormones in breast cancer progression.

Study examined associations between educational duration and specific aspects of well-being, anxiety and mood disorders, and cardiovascular health in a sample of European Ancestry UK Biobank participants born in England and Wales. Findings were consistent across all methods for the other phenotypes.

Air pollution and type 2 diabetes (T2D) are both associated with an increased risk of ischemic heart disease (IHD) Little is known about the combined effects of multiple air pollutants on IHD risk, especially among individuals with T2D. We sought to assess the association of combined exposure to several air pollutants with incident IHD.

 relaxin-3/RXFP3 system has been implicated in the modulation of depressive- and anxiety-like behaviour in the animal literature. There is a lack of human studies investigating this signalling system. We seek to bridge this gap by leveraging the large UK Biobank study to retrospectively assess genetic risk variants linked with this neuropeptidergic system.

Lung cancer is more prevalent in female patients than in male patients. Study looked at 273,190 female individuals from the UK Biobank. Early age at menopause, a shortened reproductive life span, and early age at first birth were associated with higher risks of lung cancer.

Vitamin D status-a complex trait influenced by environmental and genetic factors-is tightly associated with skin colour and ancestry. Yet very few studies have investigated the genetic underpinnings of vitamin D levels across diverse ancestries. Here, we conduct genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of 25 hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) in 442,435 individuals from four broad genetically-determined ancestry groups.

Nonselective beta-adrenoceptor blockers (NBBs) were demonstrated to have a significant association with PD (reporting odds ratio (ROR) = 3.13; 95% CI 2.33-4.22) In the meta-analysis of 12 studies with 12,183,809 participants, PD risk was elevated in NBBs. Among the 105,763 participants included in the cohort analysis using data from the UK Biobank, individuals who used N BBs had an increased risk of PD.

We examined more than 97,000 families from four neurodevelopmental disease cohorts and the UK Biobank. We identified within- and cross-disorder correlations between six phenotypes in parents and children, such as obsessive-compulsive disorder. Measures of sub-clinical autism features in parents are associated with several autism severity measures in children.

Previous studies have indicated a link between occupational exposures and an increased risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD) A prospective analysis of 65,069 UK Biobank participants aged 40 to 69 years without CKD at baseline (2006-2010) was performed.

Pathological placental inflammation increases the risk for several adult disorders. These mediators are also expressed under homeostatic conditions, where their contribution to adult health outcomes is unknown. We define an inflammation-related expression signature, primarily expressed in Hofbauer cells of the term placenta and use expression quantitative trait loci to create a polygenic score (PGS) predictive of its expression.

The impact of polysocial risk score (PsRS) on the development of psoriasis remains unclear. This was a prospective cohort study conducted among UK Biobank. Those with intermediate PsRS (2-4) and high PsRS (&#8805;5) had 1.20 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.06-1.36) and 1.53 (95%) times higher risks of developing psor Sinai.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) have shown similar worsening epidemic patterns globally. However, evidence on the relationship between NAFLD and IBD risk is lacking. We aimed to investigate the associations between long-term risk of incident IBD and NAFLd in a large prospective cohort.

A previous study of 200,000 exome-sequenced UK Biobank participants to test for association of rare coding variants with hypertension implicated two genes. A total of 42 genes had an uncorrected  p  value. The association of DNMT3A and FES with hypertension was replicated in the new sample.

Metabolic syndrome (MetS) has been associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and various cancers. Whether MetS is a risk factor for ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast (DCIS), a nonobligate precursor of IBC, remains unknown.

In 47,420 spouse-pairs from the UK Biobank, we found a weak positive phenotypic correlation between spouses for self-reported sleep duration. Timing of diurnal activity was positively correlated in contrast to the inverse correlation for chronotype. Findings support the notion that an individual's sleep may impact that of their partner.

The study identified genetically inferred effects that are generalizable across large cohorts. Reduced gray matter volume of the right anterior superior temporal gyrus had direct effects on ANX. The right posterior middle cingulate gyrus was negatively associated with "tense, sore, or aching muscles during the worst period of anxiety"

Bartter syndrome is a group of rare genetic disorders that compromise kidney function by impairing electrolyte reabsorption. Left untreated, the resulting hyponatremia, hypokalemia, and dehydration can be fatal, and there is currently no cure. Bartter syndrome type II specifically arises from mutations in KCNJ1.

Clonal haematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) is associated with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and heart failure. This study aimed to test the association of CHIP with new-onset arrhythmias.

Study included 477,190 participants from UK Biobank who were free of PD at baseline (2006-2010) During a median follow-up of 12.5 years, we identified 2550 incidences of PD. Family history of AD/dementia and polygenic risk score for AD (AD-PRS) were associated with PD risk.

PGS-Depot includes 5585 high quality summary statistics curated from 1564 traits in European and East Asian populations. A standardized best-practice pipeline is used to implement 11 summary statistics-based PGS methods. Users can also submit their own summary statistics to obtain custom PGS with the available methods.

Anterior Uveitis (AU) is the inflammation of the anterior part of the eye, the iris and ciliary body. AU is strongly associated with HLA-B*27. We identify common genome-wide significant loci in Hla-B and ERAP1.

Sarcopenia has been identified as a risk factor for increased mortality in individuals with CKD. However, the impact of sarcopenia on adverse outcomes, particularly mortality, remains uncertain. Study included 323 801 participants from the UK Biobank.

Study aimed to examine the independent and combined associations between functional and structural components of social connection and mortality. Social connection was assessed using two functional and three structural measures. Cox proportional hazard models were used to examine associations with all-cause and cardiovascular disease mortality.

Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have a 2- to 10-fold increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) We examined the genetic correlation, shared genetics, and potential causality between RA and CVD using linkage disequilibrium score regression, cross-trait meta-analysis, and Mendelian randomization. We observed significant genetic correlations of RA with myocardial infarction (r g :0.40 [95% CI, 0.24-0.56), angina (rG:0.42 [95%) and coronary heart diseases (rGs: 0.41)

Asthma is a risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD) and sex modifies the risk. Previous studies may have suffered from detection bias or residual confounding. To overcome these, we applied a "triangulation approach"

The transferability and clinical value of genetic risk scores (GRSs) across populations remain limited due to an imbalance in genetic studies across ancestrally diverse populations. Here we conducted a multi-ancestry genome-wide association study of 156,319 prostate cancer cases and 788,443 controls of European, African, Asian and Hispanic men.

There is limited evidence for the causal role of these risk factors. We used hospital and general practitioner records in UK Biobank. We identified one variant (rs429358) in APOE at genome-wide significance.

Long telomere length was associated with decreased risk of incident non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) TL partly mediated the association between age and NAFLD (proportion mediated: 15.52%). The highest risk was found in participants with low TL and old age. A positive interaction was observed between high PRS and low TL.

The developed deep learning model accurately predicted type 2 diabetes from neck-to-knee two-point Dixon MRI scans. The ensemble over multiple Dixon MRI stations yields better performance than selecting the individually best station. Integrating clinical information about known risk factors of diabetes in the network boosts the performance across all stations.

Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) is a key regulator of lipid homeostasis. A few earlier genome-wide association studies (GWAS) investigated genetic variants associated with circulating PCSK9 concentrations. However, uncertainty remains about some of the genetic loci discovered. We aimed to identify novel loci and validate the previously reported loci.

It has been suggested that the timing of exercise is important in the subsequent development of hypertension. We used the UK Biobank database which prospectively collates data in over 500,000 people aged between 40 and 69 years to determine the relationship between the chronoactivity pattern of exercise and the risk of incident hypertension. Cluster 1 and Cluster 2 cases with High Intensity physical activity had a lower risk of hypertension; however, Low Int intensity physical activity in Cluster 1 still reduced the risk.

Anti-inflammatory trials have shown considerable benefits for cardiovascular disease. High neutrophil counts, an easily accessible inflammation biomarker, are associated with atherosclerosis in experimental studies. This study aimed to investigate the associations between neutrophill counts and risk of nine cardiovascular endpoints.

Study determined associations of regional fat depots and fat-free mass on left ventricular function and arterial stiffness to explain obesity-related cardiac dysfunction. Participants underwent whole body magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) in an ongoing imaging study of 100,000 individuals.

Different serum lipids and lipid-modifying targets should affect the risk of cholelithiasis. Whether such effects are causal is still controversial and we aimed to answer this question. We found that serum levels of LDL-C and HDL-C were inversely associated with choleLithiasis risk and such associations were linear. But the serum level of TC was non-linearly associated with the risk.

Few studies on the risk of incident major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events (MACCEs) in sarcopenia have been reported. The objective was to assess the association between presarcopenia and sarc Openia and a higher risk of MACCEs. Muscle strength was measured using HGS, and muscle mass using the SMI.

Real-world retinal optical coherence tomography (OCT) scans are available in abundance in primary and secondary eye care centres. The associated electronic health records alone are often not enough to generate a high-quality dataset for clinical, statistical, and machine learning analysis. We trained a two-stage convolutional neural network to classify macula-centered 3D volumes from Topcon OCT images.

Gut microbiota imbalances have been suggested as a contributing factor to atrial fibrillation (AF), but the causal relationship is not fully understood. Mediation MR analyses were conducted for AF risk factors including type 2 diabetes, coronary artery disease (CAD), body mass index (BMI), blood lipids, blood pressure, and obstructive sleep apnea. Genus Holdemania was associated with incident AF risk in the UK Biobank.

Study included 70 830 UK Biobank participants with physical activity measured by wrist-worn accelerometers. Participants were followed for a median of 6.8 years, during which 2795 CVD events were recorded. Compared with the low abdominal adiposity and highest tertile of physical activity, abdominal obesity was associated with higher risk of incident CVD.

Migration is selective, resulting in inequalities between migrants and nonmigrants. Combination pre- and post-migration data are rarely available. We propose an alternative approach to assessing internal migration selection by integrating genetic data.

Living close to the coast and air pollution were associated with a decreased risk of prostate cancer and skin melanoma, respectively. Findings support the role of the local environment on cancer development, which is independent from genetics.

Early life events and environmental factors are associated with type 2 diabetes (T2D) development. We assessed the combined effect of birth weight andambient air pollutants, and effect of their interaction on T2D risk.

People with mental disorders have worse physical health compared with the general population. This could be attributable to receiving poorer quality healthcare. People with schizophrenia had the highest (unadjusted) risk of hospital admission for ACSCs compared with those with no mental disorder.

The relation of social deprivation with single cardiometabolic disease (CMD) was widely investigated. We analyzed 345,417 UK Biobank participants without any CMDs at recruitment. 68,338 participants developed at least one CMD, 16,225 further developed CMM, and 18,876 ultimately died from all causes (median follow up of 13.4 years) Compared to Q1 of TDI (lowest deprivation), the multivariable adjusted HR (95%CIs) of Q4 (highest deprivation) was 1.23 (1.20 ~ 1.26) for developing CMD.

Some older individuals remain unaffected despite high predicted risk of ASCVD. These individuals may carry cardioprotective genetic variants that contribute to resilience. We identified 2 independent variants in the CETP (cholesteryl ester transfer protein) gene. Carriers of the identified variants (versus noncarriers) had higher plasma high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels.

The associations of the Mediterranean-DASH Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay (MIND) diet with brain structural changes are unclear. Among 26,466 UK Biobank participants, a 15-point MIND score was calculated from 24-hour diet recalls from 2009 to 2012. Higher MIND adherence was associated with larger volumes of thalamus, putamen, pallidum, hippocampus, and accumbens.

Study aimed to detect the joint and interactive associations of socioeconomic status (SES) and lifestyle factors with incident dementia risk, and the underlying brain imaging alterations. Participants with high SES and most healthy lifestyle had a significantly lower risk of incident dementia.

Obesity and dyslipidemia may be associated with hippocampal alterations and may increase the risk of neurodegeneration. This study studied hippocampal anatomical and functional association with a lipid profile based on high- density lipoprotein, low-density lipop protein, and triglyceride related to dys Lipidemia in obese and nonobese adults.

Study looked at association of miscarriage and stillbirth with coronary heart disease (CHD), stroke, heart failure, atrial fibrillation, and composite outcomes. Hypertension, DM, and lipoprotein metabolism disorders mediated the association between miscarriage and various cardiovascular outcomes in later life.

ExplaiNAble BioLogical Age (ENABL Age) combines machine-learning models with explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) methods to accurately estimate biological age. ENABL Age clock was significantly correlated with chronological age.

403045 participants from UK Biobank were enrolled in this study. A cross-lagged panel model was used to investigate the longitudinal reciprocal association between RA and COPD. Causal mediation analysis was performed to explore the mediating roles of 160 systemic inflammatory biomarkers in the bidirectional association.

Clonal hematopoiesis (CH) arises when a substantial proportion of mature blood cells is derived from a single stem cell lineage. Prevalence approaches 50% in elderly participants. Smoking demonstrates a dosage-dependent impact on risk of CH.

Study involved 408,886 participants from the UK Biobank. During a median follow-up of 8.7 years, 1492 incident CP-MM were ascertained. Individuals with obesity had a hazard ratio (HR) of 1.51 (95% confidence intervals [CI]: 1.30-1.75)

Many common neurological disorders are associated with advancing chronological age. But their association with biological age (BA) remains poorly understood. We studied 325 870 participants in the UK Biobank without a diagnosed neurological condition.

Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely prescribed for gastroesophageal reflux disease and peptic ulcer disease. The association between the regular PPIs use and the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) outcomes remains unclear.

Joint morphology is a risk factor for hip osteoarthritis (HOA) and could explain ethnic differences in HOA prevalence. We compared the prevalence of radiographic HOA and hip morphology between the predominantly White UK Biobank (UKB) and exclusively Chinese Shanghai Changfeng (SC) cohorts.

Parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase (PRKN) mutations are the most common cause of young onset and autosomal recessive Parkinson's disease (PD) PRKN is located in FRA6E, which is one of the common fragile sites in the human genome, making this region prone to structural variants. Complex structural variants such as inversions of PRKN are seldom reported.

Using the UK Biobank cohort, we evaluate the association between circadian rhythm-disrupting behaviours, blood pressure (SBP, DBP) and inflammatory markers in >350,000 adults with European white British ancestry. The independent U-shaped relationship between sleep length and SBP/DBP is most prominent with a low inflammatory status. Poor sleep quality and permanent night shift work are also positively associated with SBP and DBP.

We develop and validate ancestry-specific Polygenic Risk Scores (PRSs) for Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) The CAD PRSs outperform published scores with an average Odds Ratio per Standard Deviation of 1.57. Using this risk factor to reclassify borderline or intermediate 10 year Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease (ASCVD) risk improves assessments.

It remains unknown whether the dietary diversity score (DDS) could modify the association of long-term exposure to individual air pollutants with the incidence, complications, and mortality of type 2 diabetes (T2D) We included 162,579 participants from the UK Biobank who had &#8805; one 24-h dietary assessment.

UK Biobank is a prospective cohort study of 0.5 million adults aged 40-69 years recruited between 2006 and 2010. Blood pressure, plasma lipids and dysglycaemia accounted for much of the observed excess risk.

Cardiovascular risk increases during menopause, so the medical and scientific community should consider women's specific risk factors to prevent cardiovascular disease. This study aims to assess the risk factors for the incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) exclusive to postmenopausal women.

Previous research has found an association of low bone mineral density (BMD) and regional gray matter (GM) volume loss in Alzheimer's disease. We were interested whether BMD is associated with GM volume decrease in brains of a healthy elderly population from the UK Biobank.

Body composition has a sex-specific effect on type 2 diabetes, we found. In women, higher GFATadj and ALMadj exerted a causally protective effect. In men, higher VATadj and ASATadj were found to be riskier in glycaemic traits.

The human leukocyte antigen (HLA) region on chromosome 6 is strongly associated with many immune-mediated and infection-related diseases. Traditional genetic association studies of single nucleotide polymorphisms do not perform well in this region. Here, we use whole-exome sequencing (WES) from 454,824 UK Biobank participants to directly call HLA alleles using the HLA-HD algorithm.

Little is known about the persistence of antibodies after the first year following SARS-CoV-2 infection. We aimed to determine the proportion of individuals that maintain detectable levels of Sars-Cov-2 antibodies over an 18-month period following infection.

Heart rate variability (HRV) is a cardiac autonomic marker with predictive value in cardiac patients. Ultra-short HRV can be measured at scale using standard and wearable ECGs, but its association with cardiovascular events in the general population is undetermined. We aimed to validate usHRV measured using &#8804; 15-s ECGs (using RMSSD, SDSD and PHF indices)

Previous studies have shown that excessive screen time is associated with an increased prevalence of dementia, Parkinson's disease (PD), and depression. This study aimed to prospectively investigate the association between different types of screen time and brain structure, as well as the incidence of these diseases.

Risk of second primary cancers is increasing after the first primary cancers (FPC) are diagnosed and treated. The underlying causal relationship remains unclear. We conducted a pan-cancer association study in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database.

Forearm fractures are the most common clinically recognized osteoporotic fractures with a relatively high heritability. We identified 43 loci, including 26 new fracture loci. Tall stature and low body mass index were identified as new causal risk factors. The insights from this atlas may improve fracture prediction and enable therapeutic development to prevent fractures.

Hand osteoarthritis is a common heterogeneous joint disorder with unclear molecular mechanisms and no disease-modifying drugs. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing analysis to compare the cellular composition and subpopulation-specific gene expression between cartilage with and without the disease. Both inflammatory and fibrocartilage chondrocytes showed a trend toward increased numbers of iron overload-related genes.

Study included 462,524 participants from the UK Biobank with a follow-up of 13.6 years. Participants' screen-based sedentary activities time was categorized into three groups based on recorded time. TV viewing 2-3 h/day correlated with a higher risk of all-cause dementia.

Dupuytren disease is associated with significant comorbidity and mortality. It is unclear which modifiable risk factors are most amenable for prevention. This study aimed to determine the strength of modifiablerisk factors.

Study of 2151 people with MS and 486,125 controls using data from a longitudinal cohort (UK Biobank) Exposures associated with MS were childhood obesity, smoking and earlier menarche. Autosomal polygenic risk score (PRS) was associated with disease status. Evidence of synergistic interaction between PRS and both childhood obesity and smoking.

Mild vision impairment is common in middle aged UK adults, despite widespread use of spectacles. Older adults, those from low socioeconomic and ethnic minority backgrounds were most at risk for vision problems. Optometrists should consider screening for hearing problems, particularly among older adults.

M&#233;ni&#232;re's disease was more common in participants who were older (adjusted odds ratio per 10-year increase: 1.5 [95% confidence interval:1.4-1.6]), white and female. Associations were noted with a number of diseases, and the authors hypothesize a role for the autonomic nervous system and immune system dysfunction.

The current standard measure of hearing, the pure-tone audiogram is not very cognitively demanding. We analysed data from UK Biobank that asked 40-69 year olds about their hearing, and assessed their ability on tests of speech-in-noise hearing and cognition.

Physical activity is thought to protect against obesity, but the evidence is limited. We examined the association of self-reported physical activity with measures of total and central adiposity. The study included 38,201 premenopausal and 94,592 postmenopausal healthy women aged 40 to 70 years in UK Biobank.

The built environment (BE) has emerged as one of the 'first causes' of chronic disease, capable of explaining its socio-spatial variation. There is an increasing need for objective, detailed and precise measurements of attributes of BE.

There is a general perception that smoking protects against weight gain. This may influence commencement and continuation of smoking, especially among young women. Logistic regression analyses were used to explore the association between smoking and obesity.

Cross-sectional data from the UK Biobank were used to compare 1,327 self-reported M&#233;ni&#232;re's cases with 479,500 controls. The authors used logistic regression models to investigate the relation of the disease with the components of adult height.

M&#233;ni&#232;re's disease is an unpredictable illness that impacts on mental health. The symptom triad of vertigo, tinnitus, and hearing loss all contribute to the disabling nature of the condition. To date, limited research has investigated the mental health and SWB impact of the disease.

Early puberty timing is associated with higher risks for type 2 diabetes (T2D) and cardiovascular disease in women. We characterised the range of diseases and other adverse health outcomes associated with early or late puberty timing in men and women.

Study of UK residents aged 40-69 years registered with the National Health Service. Data were collected on visual acuity, intraocular pressure (IOP), corneal biomechanics, and questionnaire from 112 690 participants.

Study used UK Biobank data to study the genetic causes of smoking behaviour and lung health. Found shared genetic causes between different phenotypes defined by extremes of FEV1.

Chronic pain and depression reporting varies across ethnic groups. Differences in health seeking behaviour between ethnic groups may impact on the results reported. Clinicians need to be aware of the cultural barriers within certain ethic groups to expressing concern over mood.

Birth weight, age at menarche and height, but not BMI, were highly significantly associated with season of birth. Individuals born in summer (June-July-August) had higher mean birth weight and later pubertal development. Those born in winter (December-January-February) showed directionally opposite differences in these outcomes.

Lung function measures are used in the diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. We studied genome-wide association of forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1), forced vital capacity (FVC) and FEV1/FVC with 1000 Genomes Project (phase 1)-imputed genotypes.

We used linkage disequilibrium regression and polygenic profile scoring to test for shared genetic aetiology between cognitive functions and neuropsychiatric disorders and physical health. Substantial and significant genetic correlations were observed between cognitive test scores in the UK Biobank sample.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) is associated with cognitive decrements and risk of later dementia. It is not known if shared genetic factors underlie this association. We tested whether polygenic risk for CAD was associated with Cognitive ability in community-dwelling cohorts.

Several regions of the genome have shown to be associated with COPD. Study identified several associations with the risk of COPD and severity of airflow limitation. Novel regions MOCS3, IFIT3 and SERPINA12 warrant further study.

Mendelian randomisation study to test for causal effects of differences in stature and BMI on five measures of socioeconomic status. Study looked at 119,669 men and women of British ancestry, aged between 37 and 73 years. Shorter stature and higher BMI were observationally associated with several measures of lower socioeconomic status in the study.

Genome-wide association (GWA) studies have identified hundreds of common genetic variants associated with obesity and type 2 diabetes. Identifying deviations from additivity may provide new biological insights and explain some of the missing heritability for these diseases.

COPD is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. UK Biobank cohort recruited 502 649 adults aged 40-69 years. Of 353 occupations reported by 228 614 current working participants, several showed significantly increased COPD risk.

Neuroticism is a personality trait of fundamental importance for psychological well-being and public health. It is strongly associated with major depressive disorder (MDD) and several other psychiatric conditions. Although neuroticism is heritable, attempts to identify the alleles involved in previous studies have been limited by relatively small sample sizes.

People with higher levels of neuroticism have an increased risk of several types of mental disorder. Higher neuroticism has also been associated, less consistently, with an increase in risk of various physical health outcomes. We hypothesised that these associations may, in part, be due to shared genetic influences.

M&#233;ni&#232;re's was estimated to cost between &#163;541.30 million and &# 163;608.70 million annually (equivalent to US $829.9 to $934.2 million) In the UK, the annual cost of this condition is substantial. Further research is required to develop cost-effective treatments and management strategies to reduce the economic burden.

It is unclear whether the potential benefits of physical activity differ according to level of cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) or strength. The aim of this study was to determine whether the association between physical activity and mortality is moderated by CRF and grip strength sufficiently to inform health promotion strategies.

Analysis of the heritability of 12 complex diseases in 1,555,906 individuals from the UK Biobank. SNP heritability explains a higher proportion of estimated heritability.

The role sex determination plays in human genetic variation remains unclear. The presence of gene-by-sex (GxS) interactions implies that trait genetic architecture differs between men and women. We show that GxS interactions and genetic heterogeneity among sexes are small but common features of a range of high-level complex traits.

Little is known about the effect of copy number variants (CNVs) on lung function. CNVs represent a significant proportion of human genetic polymorphism. We measured copy number at 2788 previously characterised, common copy number variable regions in 6 independent cohorts.

About half of the variation in wellbeing measures overlaps with variation in personality traits. Studies of non-human primate pedigrees and human twins suggest that this is due to common genetic influences. We tested whether personality polygenic scores for the NEO Five-Factor Inventory (NEO-FFI) domains and for item response theory (IRT) derived extraversion and neuroticism scores predict wellbeing measures.

Experimental work has shown better visuospatial working memory (VSWM) in profoundly deaf individuals compared to those with normal hearing. Other data, including the UK Biobank resource shows poorer VSWM in individuals with poorer hearing. Using the same database, the authors investigated VSWm in individuals who reported profound deafness.

The UK Biobank combines detailed phenotyping and genotyping with tracking of long-term health outcomes in a large cohort. Results from the first 5,000 subjects are reported, including thousands of associations.

Quantitative and accurate measurements of fat and muscle in the body are important for prevention and diagnosis of diseases related to obesity and muscle degeneration. Manually segmenting muscle and fat compartments in MR body-images is laborious and time-consuming, hindering implementation in large cohorts. In the present study, the feasibility and success-rate of a Dixon-based MR scan followed by an intensity-normalised, non-rigid, multi-atlas based segmentation was investigated in a cohort of 3,000 subjects.

Caffeine is the most widely consumed psychoactive substance in the world. It presents with wide interindividual variation in metabolism. This variation may modify potential adverse or beneficial effects of caffeine on health. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of plasma caffeine, paraxanthine, theophylline and theobromine.

In UK Biobank, OCT images were acquired between 2009 and 2010 using a commercially available "spectral domain" OCT device. Rapid, automated analysis of retinal thickness was performed using custom image segmentation software developed by the Topcon Advanced Biomedical Imaging Laboratory (TABIL)

Analysis of 113,851 UK Biobank samples showed that population structure in the UK is dominated by five principal components. Analyses of ancient Eurasians revealed that populations in the northern UK have higher levels of Steppe ancestry. UK population structure cannot be explained as a simple mixture of Celts and Saxons.

 meta-analysis of data from over 300,000 individuals for age at first birth and number of children ever born. They identify 12 significant loci that associate with these traits.

Study was conducted using the UK Biobank resource, a population-based cohort of 40- to 69-year olds. Data on tinnitus (presence, persistence, and related distress) and on sleep difficulties were analyzed using logistic regression models.

High circulating levels of the branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) strongly associated with higher type 2 diabetes risk. Genome-wide studies of BCAA levels in 16,596 individuals revealed five genomic regions associated at genome-wide levels of significance.

Genomic analyses have suggested that the LPA gene and its associated plasma biomarker, lipoprotein(a) (Lp[a), represent a causal risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD) This study aimed to establish the full phenotypic impact of LPAGene variation and to estimate a dose-response curve. One SD genetically lowered Lp(a), we found, was associated with a 29% lower risk of CHD.

Manual identification of signal and noise after ICA decomposition is required for efficient data denoising. We present a practical "how-to" guide to help determine whether single-subject fMRI independent components (ICs) characterise structured noise.

As genetic association studies increase in size to 100 000s of individuals, subtle biases may influence conclusions. One possible bias is 'index event bias' (IEB) that appears due to the stratification by, or enrichment for, disease status. We aimed to test the extent to which IEB influences some known trait associations.

Previous studies have suggested that modern obesogenic environments accentuate the genetic risk of obesity. However, these studies have proven controversial as to which, if any, measures of the environment accentuate genetic susceptibility to high body mass index (BMI) We used up to 120 000 adults from the UK Biobank study to test the hypothesis.

The prevalence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is increasing faster among women than among men. We analyzed 149,075 women and 100,252 men taking part in the UK Biobank. The association of airflow obstruction with smoking characteristics was assessed by sex.

Lung cancer risk prediction models have been developed, but none to date have assessed the predictive ability of lung function in a population-based cohort. We sought to develop and internally validate a model incorporating lung function using data from the UK Biobank prospective cohort study.

Physical activity has not been objectively measured in prospective cohorts with sufficiently large numbers to reliably detect associations with multiple health outcomes. Technological advances now make this possible. We describe the methods used to collect and analyse accelerometer measured physical activity in over 100,000 participants of the UK Biobank study.

 Height is a highly heritable, classic polygenic trait with approximately 700 common associated variants identified through genome-wide association studies so far. Here, we report 83 height-associated coding variants with lower minor-allele frequencies (in the range of 0.1-4.8%) and effects of up to 2 centimetres per allele. These variants overlap genes that are mutated in monogenic growth disorders.

In observational studies, abdominal adiposity has been associated with type 2 diabetes and coronary heart disease (CHD) Whether these associations represent causal relationships remains uncertain. We tested the association of a polygenic risk score for waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) adjusted for body mass index (BMI), a measure of abdominal adiposity, with type 2 diabetes and CHD through the potential intermediates of blood lipids, blood pressure, and glycemic phenotypes.

Self-reported tiredness and low energy are associated with poorer physical and mental health. Twin studies have indicated that this has a heritability between 6 and 50%. In the UK Biobank sample (N=108 976), we carried out a genome-wide association study (GWAS)

The health impairments derived from both alcoholism and obesity are well known. However, reports that relate increased alcohol use with increased measures of obesity have been mixed in their findings. Here, using a large sample of adults from the UK, we report both observed and genetic correlations between BMI (kg/m2) and two measures of alcohol use.

UK Biobank study is an ongoing prospective cohort of >0.5 million UK adults aged 40-69 y. Baseline data collection included measurements of GS and adiposity indicators, including body mass index (BMI; in kg/m 2 ). Age- and sex-specific GS quintiles were used. Obesity class II was associated with a greater all-cause mortality risk.

Cross-sectional data from 119,859 white European adults, aged 37-73 y, participating in the UK Biobank. Interactions of GPRS-obesity and sleep characteristics (sleep duration, chronotype, day napping, and shift work) with effects on BMI and WC were investigated.

Mendelian randomization can test for and estimate the causal effect of an exposure on an outcome. Most IV methods assume that the function relating the exposure to the expected value of the outcome is linear. We present two novel IV methods for investigating the shape of the exposure-outcome relationship.

UK Biobank is the world's largest repository for phenotypic and genotypic information for individuals of European ancestry. We identified 3290 VTE cases and 116 868 controls through billing code-based phenotyping. We performed a phenome-wide association study for a genetic risk score of 10 VTE-associated variants. In a Mendelian randomization analysis, genetically elevated body mass index was associated with 57% higher risk of VTE.

A common missense variant in the gene encoding a component of the sulfonylurea receptor ( ABCC8  p.A1369S) promotes closure of the target channel of sulfonyLurea therapy. The variant was associated with increased BMI but lower waist-to-hip ratio adjusted for BMI.

Genotype data on &#8764;370,000 women and identify 389 independent signals that associate with age at menarche, implicating genes. Their analyses suggest causal inverse associations between puberty timing and risks for breast and endometrial cancers in women and prostate cancer in men.

UK Biobank participants were recruited and baseline measures were taken between 2007 and 2010. Self-report questionnaires were used to measure lifestyle behaviours. Six groups were defined based on BMI; 'Underweight', 'Normal weight', 'Overweight' and 'Obese'

Residential greenness was independently and consistently associated with lower adiposity. Residing in greener areas was associated with healthy weight outcomes possibly through a physical activity-related mechanism. Green allocation and design may act as upstream-level public health interventions.

Leisure screen time, including TV viewing, is associated with increased mortality risk. We estimated the all-cause mortality risk reductions associated with substituting leisure screen time with different discretionary physical activity types. Reallocations from screen time into specific activity subtypes suggested different reductions in mortality hazard.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the major cause of morbidity and mortality in the world. Identification of novel genetic determinants may provide new opportunities for developing innovative strategies to predict, prevent and treat CAD.

Using targeted and whole-exome sequencing, we studied 32 human and 87 rodent obesity genes in 2,548 severely obese children and 1,117 controls. We identified 52 variants contributing to obesity in 2% of cases including multiple novel variants in GNAS. Nominally significant associations were found for rare functional variants in BBS1, BBS9, GNAS, MKKS, CLOCK and ANGPTL6.

Matthew Robinson, Peter Visscher and colleagues use phenotypic data on 172,000 sibling pairs. They conclude that substantially larger sample sizes will be required to understand the full genetic architecture of this trait.

Hand grip strength is a widely used proxy of muscular fitness, a marker of frailty, and predictor of a range of morbidities and all-cause mortality. We perform a large-scale genetic discovery analysis in a combined sample of 195,180 individuals and identify 16 loci associated with grip strength.

The relationship between insomnia symptoms and cognitive performance is unclear, particularly at the population level. We conducted the largest examination of this association to date through analysis of the UK Biobank, a large population-based sample of adults aged 40-69.

Impairments in reading and in language have negative consequences on life outcomes. It is not known to what extent genetic effects influence this association. We constructed polygenic scores for difficulties with language and learning to read from genome-wide data in 6,600 children, adolescents and young adults. Polygenic risk of reading difficulties was associated with reduced income, educational attainment and self-rated health.

Sekar Kathiresan and colleagues perform a genome-wide association test for coronary artery disease (CAD) Using data from the UK Biobank, they identify 15 new loci. They implicate insulin resistance pathways and transendothelial migration.

Previous reports of altered grey and white matter structure in Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) have been inconsistent. In this study, we tested for differences in subcortical grey matter volume between depressed individuals and controls in the subset of 8590 UK Biobank Imaging study participants who had undergone depression assessments. Significant reductions were found in depressed individuals versus controls in global white matter integrity.

We estimated genotype by environment interaction (G × E) on later cognitive performance and educational attainment across four unique environments. We used a novel design and statistical approach that was facilitated by the availability of datasets with the genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) There was significant G × E for both fluid intelligence (p-value = 1.0E-03) and educational. attainment (p -value = 8.3E-05) in the group of individuals who were breastfed without maternal smoking.

Cognitive ability is a heritable trait with a polygenic architecture. Haplotype-based analyses are a complementary technique that take phased genotype data into account. None of the assessed haplotypes provided evidence of a statistically significant association with cognitive ability in the individual cohorts or the meta-analysis.

Hispanic/Latino Americans are a diverse and understudied population. Hypertension prevalence varies between ethnic groups, possibly due to differences in genetic, environmental, and cultural determinants. We investigated whether previously reported loci associated with BP in studies of European, African, and Asian ancestry generalize to Hispanics/Latinos.

Previous genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified hundreds of genetic loci to be associated with BMI and risk of obesity. In this study, we examine gene-environment interactions in 362,496 unrelated participants with Caucasian ancestry from the UK Biobank resource. 15 lifestyle factors were observed to interact with GSBMI.

For most traits and diseases the prediction R-squared (R-sq.) achieved with genetic scores remains considerably lower than the trait heritability. Modern biobanks will soon deliver unprecedentedly large biomedical data sets. Will the advent of big data close the gap between the trait. heritability and the proportion of variance that can be explained by a genomic predictor? We addressed this question using Bayesian methods and a data analysis approach.

The Trail Making Test is a widely used test of executive function. It has been thought to be strongly associated with general cognitive function. We examined the genetic architecture of the TMT and its shared genetic aetiology with other tests of cognitive function in 23 821 participants from UK Biobank.

Inadequate sleep (&#8804;6 and &#8805;9h) is more prevalent in smokers than non-smokers. We investigated the extent to which sleep duration predicted smoking behaviors and quitting intention in a population sample. Worsening sleep duration (adequate to inadequate) predicted a more than three-fold higher odds in increased cigarettes per day.

A reference panel of 1,000 individuals is adequate for a GWAS cohort of up to 10,000. Smaller panels, such as those from the 1000 Genomes Project, should be avoided. The size of the reference panel needs to scale with the GWAS sample size.

Genome-wide association studies have recently identified >400 loci that harbor DNA sequence variants that influence blood pressure (BP) Earlier studies identified 56 single nucleotide variants (SNVs) associated with BP from meta-analyses of exome chip genotype data. An additional 100 variants yielded suggestive evidence of association.

Nicotine dependence is a heritable trait with established associations with sequence variants in nicotine acetylcholine receptor genes and at other loci. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) meta-analysis of nicotine dependence, totaling 38,602 smokers across 15 studies. We reconfirmed the well-known CHRNA5-CHRNA3-CHRNB4 genes and yielded a novel association in the DNA methyltransferase gene DNMT3B.

A genetic predisposition to enhanced nitric oxide signaling is associated with reduced risks of coronary heart disease, peripheral arterial disease, and stroke. Conversely, rare variants that inactivate the NOS3 or GUCY1A3 genes were associated with a 23 mm Hg higher systolic blood pressure. Pharmacological stimulation of nitricoxide signaling may prove useful in the prevention or treatment of cardiovascular disease.

Active commuting (AC) was reported by 5.5% of participants, with the great majority using the car to commute. AC was associated with reduced sedentary time. Deprivation and distance from home to work were identified as correlates of AC behaviour. Rates of AC are very low in adults with type 2 diabetes.

Using genome-wide association meta-analysis of 606,059 parents' survival, we discover two regions associated with longevity (HLA-DQA1/DRB1 and LPA) We also validate previous suggestions that APOE, CHRNA3/5, CDKN2A/B, SH2B3 and FOXO3A influence longevity. Giving up smoking, educational attainment, openness to new experience and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels are most positively genetically correlated with lifespan.

Iiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic progressive lung disease with high mortality, uncertain cause, and few treatment options. Studies have identified a significant genetic risk associated with the development of IPF; however, mechanisms by which genetic risk factors promote IPF remain unclear. We aimed to identify genetic variants associated with IPF susceptibility and provide mechanistic insight.

Previous physical activity (PA) research in schizophrenia has relied largely upon self-report measures. Obtaining accurate measurements, and determining what may influence PA levels in schizophrenia, is essential to understand physical inactivity in this population. This study examined differences in self-reported and objectively measured PA in people with schizophrenia and the general population.

UK Biobank is a large-scale prospective epidemiological study with all data accessible to researchers worldwide. It is currently in the process of bringing back 100,000 of the original participants for brain, heart and body MRI and carotid ultrasound.

Exome-wide genetic analysis on >300,000 individuals identifies associations with plasma lipid traits. Loci significantly associated with cholesterol and triglycerides are examined together.

This large-scale genome-wide association analysis of subjects with asthma, hay fever or eczema provides insights into the shared genetic basis of these allergic diseases. The findings suggest these diseases partly co-occur because they share many genetic risk variants that dysregulate the expression of immune-related genes.

 Methods for genetic risk prediction have been widely investigated in recent years. Most available training data involves European samples, and it is currently unclear how to accurately predict disease risk in other populations. Here, we introduce a multiethnic polygenic risk score that combines trainingData from European samples and training data from the target population.

Male pattern baldness (MPB) or androgenetic alopecia is one of the most common conditions affecting men. The known genes explain little of the heritability. We present the results of a genome-wide association study including more than 70,000 men, identifying 71 independently replicated loci.

Genome-wide association studies using genotype data have had limited success in the identification of variants associated with major depressive disorder. Haplotype data provide an alternative method for detecting associations between variants in weak linkage disequilibrium with genotyped variants and a given trait of interest. A genome-wide haplotype association study for MDD was undertaken.

13 250 (3.5%) of 379 511 white European individuals in UK Biobank had developed diabetes in the first six decades of life. 1286 more cases of diabetes were in the half of the population with high genetic susceptibility to type 1 diabetes.

Genome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphism variation contributes substantially to AF risk. Risk for AF conferred by genomic variation is similar to that observed for several other cardiovascular diseases. Established AF loci only explain a moderate proportion of disease risk.

We undertook a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of parental longevity in European descent UK Biobank participants. For combined mothers' and fathers' attained age, 10 loci were associated (p -8 ), including 8 previously identified for traits including survival, Alzheimer's and cardiovascular disease.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a complex phenotype driven by genetic and environmental factors. Ninety-seven genetic risk loci have been identified to date, but the identification of additional susceptibility loci might be important to enhance our understanding of the genetic architecture of CAD.

Study analysed UK Biobank data from 489 079 participants. Crude diabetes prevalence was higher in men across all four ethnicities. After standardizing for age, SES, BMI and lifestyle factors, a significant sex difference in diabetes prevalence persisted.

High blood pressure (BP) is a major risk factor for cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) Both heritable and lifestyle risk factors contribute to elevated BP levels. We aimed to investigate the extent to which lifestyle factors could offset the effect of an adverse BP genetic profile.

Genome-wide association studies have identified >250 loci for body mass index (BMI) Most GWAS loci represent clusters of common, noncoding variants from which pinpointing causal genes remains challenging. Here we combined data from 718,734 individuals to discover rare and low-frequency (minor allele frequency (MAF)

To date, genetic variants in more than 60 loci have been identified as associated with BMD. We identified variants associated with TB-BMD at 80 loci, of which 36 have not been previously identified. Only variants in ESR1 and close proximity to RANKL showed a clear effect dependency on age.

Gliomas are the most common type of malignant primary brain tumor. Few risk factors have been linked to their development. Handedness has been associated with several pathologic neurological conditions such as schizophrenia, autism, and epilepsy.

By reanalyzing publicly available type 2 diabetes (T2D) genome-wide association studies (GWAS) data for 70,127 subjects, we identify seven novel associated regions. Five of the regions are driven by common variants (LYPLAL1, NEUROG3, CAMKK2, ABO, and GIP genes), one by a low-frequency (EHMT2), and one driven by a rare variant in chromosome Xq23 (rs146662075)

Much of the evidence about the effects of education comes from observational studies. We exploit the raising of the minimum school leaving age in the UK in September 1972 as a natural experiment. We found consistent evidence that remaining in school causally reduced the risk of diabetes and mortality in all specifications.

UK Biobank is a large prospective cohort comprising 502,637 men and women aged 40-69 years. History of fracture was self-reported, and details of hospital admissions for ischaemic heart disease (IHD) (ICD-10:I20-I25) were obtained through linkage to UK Hospital Episode Statistics. Cox proportional hazards models were used to investigate relationships between prior fracture and hospital admission.

Aortic valve stenosis (AS) is the most common valvular heart disease. We identify two new AS loci, on chromosome 1p21 near PALMD (rs7543130) and on chromosome 2q22 in TEX41 (rs1830321) The results implicate both cardiac developmental abnormalities and atherosclerosis-like processes in the pathogenesis of AS.

Physical activity levels and sedentary behaviours are inversely associated with colorectal cancer risk. Whether these relationships are consistent across anatomical subsites is uncertain. We investigated the associations between coloreCTal cancer and physical activity (metabolic equivalents (METs)-hours per week), and indicators of sedentary behaviour.

Medications that relax this sphincter could promote cancer. These medications were investigated in two independent datasets. None of the medications investigated were significantly associated with oesophageal cancer risk apart from &#946;2 agonists.

We used the UK Biobank resource to develop genetic predictors of height. We applied these in a Mendelian randomisation framework to estimate the causal relationship between height and cancer. We found that each genetically predicted 9 cm increase in height conferred an odds ratio of 1.10. For both risk and mortality, the effect was larger in females than in males.

Little is known about the combined associations of cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) and hand grip strength (GS) with mortality in general adult populations. In UK Biobank, a prospective cohort of > 0.5 million adults aged 40-69 years, CRF was measured through submaximal bike tests; GS was measured using a hand-dynamometer.

Heritability is a fundamental parameter in genetics. Traditional estimates based on family or twin studies can be biased due to shared environmental or non-additive genetic variance. We applied an IBD-based approach to estimate heritability in unrelated individuals using phenotypic simulation.

Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) is a significant risk factor for glaucoma, the leading cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. Previous studies have identified numerous genetic variants associated with IOP, but these loci only explain a fraction of IOP heritability. Here, we describe the largest genome-wide association study to date using participants of European ancestry from the UK Biobank.

We used UK Biobank data to examine the associations of four dietary patterns with frailty. We also examined whether metabolic signatures (MSs) mediate these associations. Four dietary patterns were independently associated withFrailty (all P   e.g. fatty acids, lipoproteins, acetate and glycoprotein acetyls) The MSs based on these metabolites partially mediated the association of these patterns.

Individual risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D) is modified by perturbations to the mass, distribution and function of adipose tissue. To investigate the mechanisms underlying these associations, we explored the molecular, cellular and whole-body effects of T2D-associated alleles near KLF14.

Protein-truncating variants can have profound effects on gene function. Their relevance to medical phenotypes has not been systematically assessed. We find several genes with strong pleiotropic or non-additive effects.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a major cause of liver damage and has a strong genetic component. The rs4841132 G>A variant, modulating the expression of protein phosphatase 1 regulatory subunit 3B ( PPP1R3B ), has been reported to reduce the risk of NAFLD but at the same time may favor liver disease by facilitating glycogen accumulation. We assessed the impact of the variant on development of histologic steatosis and fibrosis in 1,388 European individuals.

Multiple methods have been developed to estimate narrow-sense heritability, h2, using single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in unrelated individuals. We present the most thorough and realistic comparison of these methods to date. We show that SNP-heritability can be highly sensitive to assumptions about the frequencies, effect sizes and levels of linkage disequilibrium of underlying causal variants.

Risk-taking propensity is a trait of significant public health relevance but few specific genetic factors are known. Here we perform a genome-wide association study of self-reported risk- taking propensity among 436,236 white European UK Biobank study participants. We identify genome- wide associations at 26 loci (P)

The genetic and genomic basis of sex differences in blood pressure (BP) traits remain unstudied at scale. We conducted sex-stratified and combined-sex genome-wide association studies of BP traits using the UK Biobank resource. Among associated loci, 412 were female-specific and 142 were male-specific. These sex-specific loci were enriched for hormone-related transcription factors.

Genetic correlation is a key population parameter that describes the shared genetic architecture of complex traits and diseases. It can be estimated by current state-of-art methods, i.e., linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) and genomic restricted maximum likelihood (GREML) The massively reduced computing burden of LDSC compared to GREML makes it an attractive tool.

 limited knowledge exists regarding the long-term risk of mental disorders among individuals who have experienced pregnancy loss. In the UK Biobank, a total of 218,990 women without any mental disorder at baseline were enrolled between 2006 and 2010 and followed until October 2022. Incidence rates of common mental disorders were elevated among women with a history of stillbirth, miscarriage or pregnancy termination.

We assessed the causal relation of four glycemic traits and type 2 diabetes liability with 167 metabolites. Fasting glucose and 2-h glucose were not associated with any metabolite. Higher glycated hemoglobin was associated with higher free cholesterol in small low-density lipoprotein.

Heredity plays an important role in the etiology of varicose veins (VVs) However, the genetic basis underlying this condition remains poorly understood. Our aim was to replicate top association signals from genome-wide association studies (GWASs) for VVs of lower extremities.

The problem of the genetics of related phenotypes is often addressed by analyzing adjusted-model traits. Here, we adopt a joint view of adiposity traits in ~322,154 subjects. We classify 159 signals associated with body mass index (BMI), waist-to-hip ratio (WHR), or WHR adjusted for BMI (WHRadjBMI) at P.

Population studies have been limited to European ancestries. This may have overlooked possible key genes poorly captured by common European genetic variation. Here, we report 26 loci (all P)

Diabetes patients are at higher risk for mortality than the general population. Little is known about whether the excess mortality risk associated with diabetes could be mitigated or nullified via controlling for risk factors.

 summary statistics from genome-wide meta-analyses are available for hundreds of traits. Updating these to ever-increasing reference panels is very cumbersome. A much more efficient method is to directly impute the summary statistics, termed as summary statistics imputation. Its performance relative to genotype imputation and practical utility has not yet been fully investigated.

General cognitive function is a prominent and relatively stable human trait that is associated with many important life outcomes. We combine cognitive and genetic data from the CHARGE and COGENT consortia, and UK Biobank (total N = 300,486; age 16-102) and find 148 genome-wide significant independent loci.

Developal dysplasia of the hip (DDH) is the most common skeletal developmental disease. Its genetic architecture is poorly understood. We find the heritable component of DDH attributable to common genetic variants to be 55% and distributed equally across the autosomal and X-chromosomes.

A sex-specific competing risk-adjusted Cox proportional hazards model was derived in individuals with type 1 diabetes without prior CVD. Predictors included age at diabetes onset, smoking status, body mass index, systolic blood pressure, glycated haemoglobin level and estimated glomerular filtration rate.

Sarcopenia refers to age-related loss of muscle mass and function. It is related to impaired somatic and brain health, including cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease. The relationships between sarcopenia, brain structure and cognition are poorly understood. We show that sarcopenic traits are associated with lower cognitive performance and various brain magnetic resonance imaging measures.

The effect of a healthy lifestyle on dementia associated with multimorbidity is not well understood. We utilized data from the UK Biobank cohort. A comprehensive healthy lifestyle score was generated.

Cholelithiasis is a common digestive disease that drives a myriad of adverse complications. The correlation between sarcopenia and various digestive disorders has been extensively researched. We aimed to investigate the association through prospective and Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses.

Large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) strongly suggest that most traits and diseases have a polygenic component. This observation has led to an interest in "polygenic longevity scores (PLS)" that quantify the "risk" or genetic predisposition of an individual towards health. We argue that PLS are made up of variants not only robustly associated with parental lifespan, but also contribute to the genetic architecture of disease susceptibility, morbidity, and mortality.

We have undertaken a systematic Mendelian randomization (MR) study using methylation quantitative trait loci (meQTL) to assess the relationship between genetic variation, DNA methylation and 139 complex traits. Using two-sample MR, we identified 1148 associations across 61 traits where genetic variants were associated with both proximal DNAmethylation and complex trait variation.

The identification of suitable biomarkers is of crucial clinical importance for the early diagnosis of treatment-resistant schizophrenia (TRS) This study aims to comprehensively analyze the association between TRS and blood and urine biomarkers.

Most sequence variants identified hitherto in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of atrial fibrillation are common, non-coding variants associated with risk through unknown mechanisms. We observe associations with one missense and one splice-donor variant (OR = 1.50) in RPL3L, the first ribosomal gene implicated to our knowledge.

Heavy alcohol consumption is an established risk factor for hypertension. The mechanism by which alcohol consumption impact blood pressure (BP) regulation remains unknown. We conducted a large two-stage investigation incorporating joint testing of main genetic effects and single nucleotide variant (SNV)-alcohol consumption interactions.

Low haemoglobin and anaemia are associated with poor cognition. anaemia is known to be associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the mechanism of this risk is unknown. Here, we first seek to confirm the association between cognition and anemia. We then estimate the direction of causation using Mendelian randomisation.

A previous study of 200,000 exome-sequenced UK Biobank participants had implicated four genes, LDLR, PCSK9, APOC3 and IFITM5. In addition, a further 43 protein-coding genes were significant.

The negative impacts of social isolation and loneliness on health are well documented. Little is known about their possible biological determinants. In up to 452,302 UK Biobank study participants, we perform genome-wide association study analyses for loneliness.

Coffee consumption was inversely associated with gout. The urate-increasing GCKR, ABCG2, MLXIPL, and CYP1A2 alleles were associated with reduced daily coffee consumption.

Macronutrient intake is an important risk factor for metabolic diseases with significant familial aggregation. Previous studies have identified two genetic loci for macronutrients intake. Here, we expanded the genetic landscape of macronUTrient intake, identifying 12 suggestively significant loci.

We identify putative functional coding variation associated with changes in the QRS interval duration. ADAMTS6 encodes a secreted metalloprotease of currently unknown function. In vitro validation analysis shows that QRS-associated variants lead to impaired ADamTS6 secretion.

The cT1 value is a novel MRI-based quantitative metric for assessing a composite of liver inflammation and fibrosis. It has been shown to distinguish between non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFL) and non- alcoholic steatohepatitis. However, these studies were conducted in patients at high risk for liver disease. This study establishes the normal reference range of cT 1 values for a large UK population.

Household income and neighbourhood fast-food outlet exposure may be related to diet and body weight. Understanding the double burden of these factors is a matter of public health importance. In a cohort of 51,361 adults aged 38-72 years in Greater London, UK, we jointly classified participants based on household income.

 meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) with ~16 million genetic variants in 62,892 T2D cases and 596,424 controls of European ancestry. We identify 139 common and 4 rare variants associated with T 2D, 42 of which (39 common and 3 rare variants) are independent of the known variants. 3 genes (CAMK1D, TP53INP1, and ATP5G1) with plausible regulatory mechanisms.

 genome-wide association study of 60,620 atrial fibrillation cases and 970,216 controls. We identified 142 independent risk variants at 111 loci and prioritized 151 functional candidate genes. Many of the identified risk variants fall near genes where more deleterious mutations have been reported to cause serious heart defects.

The normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) is used to measure residential greenness. The tinnitus is defined based on self-reported. In the cross-sectional analysis including 106471 participants, higher greenness is associated with lower odds of tinnitis. A similar association is observed in the longitudinal analysis.

Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) is a rare disease of women. Decline in lung function is variable, making appropriate targeting of therapy difficult. We used unbiased serum proteomics to identify markers associated with outcome in LAM.

In genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for thousands of phenotypes in large biobanks, most binary traits have substantially fewer cases than controls. Both of the widely used approaches, the linear mixed model and the recently proposed logistic mixed model, perform poorly. Here we propose a scalable and accurate generalized mixed model association test that uses the saddlepoint approximation.

A key public health need is to identify individuals at high risk for a given disease. One important approach is to stratify individuals based on inherited DNA variation. We develop and validate genome-wide polygenic scores for five common diseases. The approach identifies 8.0% of the population at greater than threefold increased risk for coronary artery disease, atrial fibrillation, type 2 diabetes, inflammatory bowel disease, and breast cancer.

Vitamin D (25-OHD) levels are associated with higher risk of colorectal cancer (CRC) Since vitamin D is modifiable, these observations have substantial clinical and public health implications. Here, we explore causality in a large Mendelian randomisation (MR) study using an improved genetic instrument.

Clonal hematopoiesis (CH) is thought to be the origin of myeloid neoplasms (MN) Yet, our understanding of the mechanisms driving CH progression to MN and clinical risk prediction of MN remains limited. We identified 115 proteins associated with MN risk of which 30% were also associated with CH.

Study aimed to investigate the association of KB levels with incident chronic kidney disease (CKD) and death. Study was a prospective cohort study of 87,899 UK Biobank participants without baseline CKD.

Signal linkage disequilibrium profile regression is a method for detecting genome-wide directional effects of signed functional annotations on disease risk. We validate the method via simulations and application to molecular quantitative trait loci in blood, recovering known transcriptional regulators. We apply the method to expression quantitative traits in 48 Genotype-Tissue Expression tissues, identifying 651 transcription factor-tissue associations.

We characterized the prevalence and phenotypic consequences of X chromosome aneuploidy in a population of 244,848 women over 40 years of age from UK Biobank. The characteristics of women with 45,X were consistent with the characteristics of a clinically recognized Turner syndrome. Women with mosaic 45, X/46,XX were less short and had a normal reproductive lifespan and birth rate.

Red Blood Cell Distribution Width (RDW) predicts incident coronary artery disease (CAD) plus all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. But its predictive value for other common diseases in healthy volunteers is less clear. We aimed to determine the shorter and longer term associations between RDW and incident common conditions in participants free of baseline disease, followed for 9 years.

There is considerable debate regarding the role that 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] concentrations play in cancer risk or mortality. Using data from the UK Biobank, we evaluate whether genetically predicted 25( OH)D concentrations are associated with overall cancer susceptibility and cancer mortality.

High blood pressure is a highly heritable and modifiable risk factor for cardiovascular disease. We report the largest genetic association study of blood pressure traits to date in over 1 million people of European ancestry. We identify 535 novel blood pressure loci that offer new insights into blood pressure regulation.

Uterine leiomyomas (ULs) are benign tumors that are a major burden to women's health. A genome-wide association study on 15,453 UL cases and 392,628 controls was performed. The likely predisposition genes could be grouped to two biological processes.

We previously developed a tool that identified individuals who later developed esophageal adenocarcinoma with an area under the curve of 0.80. In this study, we collected data from 329,463 individuals in the UK Biobank cohort who were tested for genetic susceptibility to the disease. We found that after inclusion of this genetic information, the area of the curve for identification of individuals who developed the disease remained at 0. 80.

The normal menstrual cycle requires a delicate interplay between the hypothalamus, pituitary and ovary. Its length is an important indicator of female reproductive health. Menstrual cycle length has been shown to be partially controlled by genetic factors.

The Human Connectome Projects in Development are two large-scale brain imaging studies. HCP-D is enrolling 1300+ healthy children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 5-21) and H CP-A is enrolled 1200+ healthy adults (age 36-100+) Each study collects longitudinal data in a subset of individuals at particular age ranges. The result will be a large, rich, multi-modal and freely available set of consistently acquired data.

We conducted the first genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of eudaimonic well-being and linked it to a GWAS of hedonicWell-being. Loci regulating expression showed significant enrichment in the brain cortex, brain cerebellum, frontal cortex, as well as the cerebellar hemisphere for eud Aimonia. No significant enrichment was observed for Hedonic Well-being although brain tissues were top ranked.

We expanded GWAS discovery for type 2 diabetes (T2D) by combining data from 898,130 European-descent individuals. With these data, we (i) extend the inventory of T2D-risk variants. (ii) enrich discovery of lower-frequency risk alleles (80 index variants with minor allele frequency  2)

The genetic architecture of brain structure and function is largely unknown. We carried out genome-wide association studies of 3,144 functional and structural brain imaging phenotypes from UK Biobank (discovery dataset 8,428 subjects) We show that many of these phenotypes are heritable.

Genome-wide association studies for corneal and refractive astigmatism were performed in individuals of European ancestry (N = 86,335 and 88,005 respectively) Genetic correlation between the two traits was calculated using LD Score regression. The study identified four genome-wide significant loci (P)

Inclusion of a genetic risk score (GRS) did not appreciably improve discrimination of two previously validated models. Following recalibration the discrimination did not change, but good calibration for models incorporating the GRS was recovered.

White matter hyperintensities (WMH), also known as white matter lesions, are localised white matter areas that appear hyperintense on MRI scans. WMH commonly occur in the ageing population and are often associated with several factors such as cognitive disorders, cardiovascular risk factors, cerebrovascular and neurodegenerative diseases. Our proposed Bayesian spline method models the spatio-temporal distribution of WMH with respect to a parametric factor of interest, in this case age.

Osteoarthritis has a highly negative impact on quality of life because of the associated pain and loss of joint function. Here we describe the largest meta-analysis so far of osteoarth arthritis of the hip and the knee in samples from Iceland and the UK Biobank. We found 23 independent associations at 22 loci.

The effectiveness of a cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) scan depends on the ability of the operator to correctly tune the acquisition parameters to the subject being scanned. In the clinical practice, a quality control step is performed by visual assessment of the acquired images. We propose a fast, fully automated, and learning-based quality control pipeline for CMR images.

Benign prostatic hyperplasia and associated lower urinary tract symptoms (BPH/LUTS) are common conditions affecting the majority of elderly males. We found 23 genome-wide significant variants, located at 14 loci. 15 of the variants reported here also associate with serum levels of prostate specific antigen.

The human default mode network (DMN) is implicated in several unique mental capacities. In this study, we tested whether brain-wide interregional communication in the DMN can be derived from population variability. Subregions most critical for cortical network interplay were adjacent to regions most predictive of fornix fibers.

Painful temporomandibular disorders (TMDs) are the leading cause of chronic orofacial pain. A single-nucleotide polymorphism on chromosome 3 (rs13078961) was significantly associated with TMD in males only. This effect is male-specific and may contribute to the lower rates of painful T MD in men.

Coffee, tea and alcohol consumption might be shaped by individual differences in bitter taste perception but inconsistent observational findings provide little insight regarding causality. We conducted Mendelian randomization analyses using genetic variants associated with the perception of bitter substances. A standard deviation (SD) higher in genetically predicted bitterness of caffeine was associated with increased coffee intake.

Congenital heart defects (CHD) are structural defects of the heart affecting approximately 1% of newborns. While genetic factors are known to play an important role in the development of CHD, the specific genetics remain unknown for the majority of patients. We performed a genome wide association study (GWAS) of CHDs in general and specific CHD subgroups.

Residential greenness was associated with higher bone mineral density and decreased risk of incident osteoporosis. PM 2.5 and NO 2 were identified as the primary mediators. Compared with individuals exposed to low NDVI levels and high genetic risk, those exposed to high NDVI Levels and low genetic risk had a 56% (95% CI 51% to 61%) lower risk of osteop orosis.

There's a lack of extensive studies exploring the linkage of traffic noise with cardio-metabolic risk factors such as obesity. The role of diet in the associations remains unknown. The aim is to prospectively examine the link between road traffic noise and obesity by focusing on the impact of meat.

Study aims to examine associations of daily step count with all-cause mortality and incident cardiovascular disease (CVD) by sedentary time levels. Compared with the referent 2200 steps/day (5th percentile), the optimal dose (nadir of the curve) for all- Cause mortality ranged between 9000 and 10 500 steps/ day for high (HR (95% CI)=0.61 to 0.73) and low (0.69 to0.92) sedentary times.

The occurrence of immune-mediated diseases (IMDs) in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients is widely reported. Whether IMDs and ALS is a simple coexistence or if there exists causal relationships between the two has been a subject of great interest to researchers.

Short sleep duration was associated with increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes (T2D) This association persisted even among participants who maintained a healthy diet. To validate these findings, further longitudinal studies are needed.

Device-measured PA reveals novel joint associations with diet on health outcomes. Results emphasize the crucial role of PA in addition to a healthy diet for reducing chronic diseases and mortality risk.

Resting heart rate (RHR) is associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD) and mortality. Study aimed to identify genetic loci associated with RHR, develop a genome-wide polygenic risk score (PRS) for RHR and assess associations between the RHR PRS and CVD outcomes.

Short-term exposure to air pollutants increases the risk of migraine. But the long-term impacts of exposure to multiple pollutants on migraine have not been established. The aim of this large prospective cohort study was to explore these links.

Study aimed to explore the association between birthweight and the risk of dementia, cognitive function, and brain structure. We included 275,648 participants from the UK Biobank, categorizing birthweight into quartiles. Lower birthweight was associated with worse performance in cognitive tasks.

Welch's t test has an inflated Type I error rate, is systematically biased and is prone to produce extremely low p values. A likelihood ratio test based on logistic regression models performs better still.

The relationship between age at diagnosis of hyperlipidemia and dementia remains unclear. We examined data on a sample of 489,642 participants in the United Kingdom. Younger age of diagnosis ofHyperLipidemia (per 10-year decrease) was significantly associated with higher risks of all-cause dementia.

Study comprised 212,600 UK Biobank participants recruited over 2007 and 2010 at the baseline. Residential greenness was modeled as the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) from high spatial resolution (0.50 m) color infrared imagery. The proportion of the association between greenness and AL mediated by the physical activity was 3.2%.

UK Biobank participants were followed from 2006 to 2010 (baseline) to December 31st, 2022. Over a median follow-up period of 13.65 years, we documented 9177 incidents of osteoporosis. Per interquartile (IQR) increase in greenness and natural environment at a 300 m buffer was associated with a 4% lower risk.

Based on a cohort of 83,290 participants from the UK Biobank, we assessed the associations between each of the 168 metabolites with the risks of overall cancer and 20 specific types of cancer. We identified 13 metabolic biomarkers associated with overall cancer, and found that they mediated the effects of traditional factors. The accuracies of prediction models improved when we added 13 identified metabolites in models.

Transformer-based models typically demand a considerable amount of training data to achieve satisfactory performance. Dual-stream Transformer can simultaneously acquire local and global features in the image and construct relation between the two kinds of features via self-attention.

Disturbances in habitual sleep have been associated with multiple age-associated diseases. The biological mechanisms underpinning these associations remain largely unclear. We assessed the possible involvement of the circulating immune system by determining the associations between sleep traits and white blood cell counts using multivariable-adjusted linear regression and Mendelian randomization.

Dyslipidemia has long been implicated in elevating mortality risk. Study aimed to explore the causal effects of lipid traits on both all-cause and cause-specific mortality. Higher lipoprotein(a) was associated with an increased risk of all- Cause mortality.

Study aimed to investigate the association of social isolation, loneliness, and their trajectory with the risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) across genetic risk. We included 439,337 participants enrolled in the UK Biobank study who were followed up until May 31, 2021.

Skin aging is a natural process that occurs over time but can be accelerated by sun exposure. Measuring skin age in a large population can provide insight into the extent of skin damage from sun exposure and skin cancer risk. Understanding the genetics of skin aging, within and across sexes (males and females), could improve our understanding of the genetic drivers of both skin aging and skin Cancer.

The growing prevalence of osteoporosis (OP) in an aging global population presents a significant public health concern. Tobacco smoke negatively affects bone turnover, leading to reduced bone mass and heightened OP and fracture risk. The impact of early-life tobacco smoke exposure on later-life OP risk remains unclear.

This study was a retrospective case-control study using the UK Biobank. A total of 2,576 individuals with a history of cruciate ligament surgery were identified. 290 (11.25%) of these people underwent total knee arthroplasty (TKA) Physically demanding work and obesity were associated with higher odds of TKA.

The association of diabetes onset age and duration with incident arrhythmias remains unclear. We included 457,151 participants from the UK Biobank study. We documented 23,518 AF, 9079 bradyarrhythmia, 9280 conduction system diseases. Compared with non-diabetes, the risks of AF increased by 19%, 25%, and 36%.

Mendelian randomization was used to estimate the causal effects of certain cancers on health care costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) Using data from the UK Biobank cohort, it was possible to simulate the cost-effectiveness of an anticancer intervention. Genetic liability to prostate cancer and breast cancer had material causal impacts on either or both health care cost and QALYS.

The relationships between sleep duration and aging-associated diseases are intricate. Leukocyte telomere length (LTL) is a biomarker of aging, while the association of sleepduration and LTL is unclear. Compared with participants sleeping 7-8 h, those sleep longer than 8 h had shorter LTL in middle-aged and young-old adults.

1 in 4000 individuals from the Middle East and South Asia are homozygous for a common hypomorphic PTCRA variant. They had normal circulating naive &#945;&#946; T cell counts but high &# 947;& #948; T cells. autoimmune conditions were more frequent in these patients compared with the general population.

Physical activity is a protective factor against brain atrophy, while loss of brain volume could also be a determinant of physical activity. We aimed to explore the bidirectional association ofphysical activity with brain structures in middle-aged and older adults from the UK Biobank.

Amblyopia is a common neurodevelopmental condition and leading cause of childhood visual impairment. We investigated whether children with amblyopia have increased risk of cardiometabolic disorders in adult life. This was a cross-sectional and longitudinal analysis of 126,399 United Kingdom Biobank cohort participants.

Skeletal muscle may mutually interact with gastrointestinal disease through metabolic homeostasis and nutritional status and therefore may be a marker for early risk detection. We conducted a prospective cohort analysis including 393,606 participants (mean age 56.0 years, 53.9% female)

 Associations of biological aging with the development and mortality of cardiometabolic multimorbidity (CMM) remain unclear. We conducted a multistate analysis in 341,159 adults of the UK Biobank. Over a median follow-up of 8.84 years, biologically older participants demonstrated robust higher risks.

In healthcare, direct pooling of data is often not allowed by data custodians. Federated learning offers a promising solution to this problem. Combining training data from multiple sources increases sample size and reduces confounding.

Study aimed to evaluate racial differences in the incidence of stroke. East Asians tended to have a lower body mass index (23.7 vs. 26.4 kg/m 2)

The leukodystrophy megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts (MLC) is characterized by infantile-onset macrocephaly and chronic edema of the brain white matter. Classic MLC is caused by bi-allelic recessive pathogenic variants in MLC1 or GLIALCAM (also called HEPACAM) Rare patients with heterozygous dominant variants in GPRC5B and classic MLC were recently described.

Thiazide diuretics, widely used in hypertension, cause a variety of adverse reactions, including hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, and electrolyte abnormalities. We aimed to identify genetic variants that interact with thiazide-use to increase the risk of these adverse reactions.

Mendelian randomization may give biased causal estimates if the instrument affects the outcome not solely via the exposure of interest. We demonstrate use of a global randomization test as a falsification test for the exclusion restriction assumption. We conducted proof-of-principle analyses in UK Biobank using CRP as the exposure and coronary heart disease (CHD) as the outcome.

As the brain ages, it almost invariably accumulates vascular pathology. This differentially affects the cerebral white matter. A white matter specific brain age was developed to evaluate the overall white matter health. Diabetes was most strongly associated with an increased WMBAG.

Data on cardiovascular outcomes according to objectively measured physical activity (PA) in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) are scarce. This study explored the associations between PA derived from wrist-worn accelerometers and the risk of death, incident heart failure (HF), and incident stroke.

Optic neuritis (ON) is associated with numerous immune-mediated inflammatory diseases. 50% of ON patients are ultimately diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS) Differentiating MS-ON from non-MS-ON acutely is challenging but important.

We conducted a cohort study among female participants in the UK Biobank. Use of statins was significantly associated with increased risks of cervical cancer and polycystic ovarian syndrome. However, we observed no significant association between use of statin and risk of ovarian cancer, endometrial cancer, ovarian cyst, or cervical polyp.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) have proven to be as strong as or stronger than established clinical risk factors for many cardiovascular phenotypes. This study developed and validated 1 of the first aortic stenosis PRSs.

Having a history of maternal smoking, longer exposure to SHS, and living with smokers in the household were each associated with an increased risk of developing dementia. Individuals who were simultaneously exposed to maternal smoking and SHS had a particularly higher dementia risk.

Total testosterone (TT) and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) may have beneficial effects on lung function, but these findings might be spurious due to confounding and reverse causation. We used multivariable Mendelian randomisation (MVMR) to investigate the independent causal effects of TT and SHBG. We found a strong beneficial effect of TT on FVC and FEV 1 in both males and females, but a moderate detrimental effect of SHBG in males only. These findings suggest that testosterone improves lung function in females, while SHBG has an opposite independent effect in males.

Major depression (MD) is more common amongst women than men. MD episodes have been associated with fluctuations in reproductive hormones amongst women. We examined associations between depression, stratified by sex and including perinatal depression (PND), and blood biomarkers, using UK Biobank data.

The roles of serum lipids on digestive system cancer (DSC) risk were still inconclusive. In this study, we systematically assessed indicative effects of signature lipidomic biomarkers on DSC risk. The diagnoses of DSCs were coded using International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10) codes.

The interplay between cardiovascular health metrics (CVHMs) and microvascular disease (MVD) in relation to the risk of incident coronary heart disease (CHD) among individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) remains to be evaluated. We included 19,664 participants with T2DM from the UK Biobank.

Study involved 23,785 patients with diabetes without any pre-existing cardiovascular disease. Sleep behaviour traits examined encompassed sleep duration, chronotype, insomnia, snoring and daytime sleepiness. Short and long sleep durations consistently exhibited an elevated risk of AF compared to optimal sleep duration.

Triglyceride ( TG) and atherogenic index of plasma (AIP) have been acknowledged to be risk factors for vascular insults, but their impacts on the brain system remain elusive. We investigated associations of TG and AIP with brain structure, leveraging the UK Biobank database.

Few studies have reported polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) as significant predictors of cardiovascular disease. Little is known about the relationship between PUFA levels and chronic kidney disease (CKD) This study explored this relationship among individuals with and without CKD.

Study was conducted among 171 094 UK Biobank participants. Participants were followed up until 1 March 2023 for type 2 diabetes incidence. Participants with a proinflammatory diet and always adding salt to foods had the highest risk.

Cardiometabolic multimorbidity (CMM) has high prevalence and poor prognosis. Mendelian randomization (MR) is a key method for identifying the causal factors of CMM. MR requires knowledge of the effects of SNPs on CMM, which remain unknown.

We present whole-exome sequencing analyses of depression with seven different definitions based on survey, questionnaire, and electronic health records in 320,356 UK Biobank participants. We showed that the burden of rare damaging coding variants in loss-of-function intolerant genes is significantly associated with risk of depression.

Cine cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging is considered the gold standard for cardiac function evaluation. Cine CMR acquisition is inherently slow and in recent decades considerable effort has been put into accelerating scan times without compromising image quality. We present a fully-automated, quality-controlled integrated framework for reconstruction, segmentation and downstream analysis.

Computer-vision models have been transformative in this space, enabling the automated quantification of muscle health and the processing of large datasets. People with BP (chronic>acute) have higher IMF and lower aCSA than people reporting no pain. The differences were not localized but broadly distributed across the lumbar spine.

Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. The vertical cup-to-disc ratio (VCDR) is a key structural indicator for the disease. However, manual assessment of fundus images is both time-consuming and subject to variability based on clinician expertise and interpretation.

Study aimed to investigate the potential causal relationship between domain-specific sedentary behaviors and hypertension risk in European populations. Data were collected from 261,829 hypertension-free participants in the UK Biobank. Individuals who spent >3 h per day watching television had significantly higher risk of developing hypertension.

The incidence of early-onset colorectal cancer (EOCRC) is high. We found two novel risk loci for EOCRC at 1p34.1 and 4p15.33. We identified a deleterious coding variant (rs36053993, G396D) at polyposis-associated DNA repair gene MUTYH.

Clinical decision support systems (CDSSs) play a critical role in enhancing the efficiency of mental health care delivery and promoting patient engagement. This study introduces a CDSS incorporating symptom profiling and drug recommendation formental health care. Among the UK Biobank cohort, we analyzed 157,348 participants for symptom profiling.

COPD affects estimated 164 million people worldwide. Early detection and intervention strategies are essential to reduce the burden of COPD. Current screening approaches are limited in their ability to accurately predict risk. Machine learning (ML) models offer promise for improved accuracy.

Polygenic scores (PGS) are quantitative metrics for predicting phenotypic values, such as human height or disease status. Some PGS methods require only summary statistics of a relevant genome-wide association study (GWAS) for their score. Joint-Lassosum (JLS) is an effective approach for enhancing portability and reducing predictive bias.

Cancer risk is influenced by inherited mutations, DNA replication errors, and environmental factors. influence of genetic variation in immunosurveillance on cancer risk is not well understood. heterozygosity at the  human leukocyte antigen (HLA) -II loci is associated with reduced lung cancer risk in smokers.

Study was a prospective cohort study based on the UK Biobank, with a median follow-up of 12.47 years. Results indicated that MSDP elevated the risk of all-cause mortality and mortality due to neoplasms.

Little evidence supports genetic personalization of fried food intake recommendations for the management of obesity. We included 27 427 participants who had dietary data assessed by a validated 24 h dietary recall and available anthropometric information from the UK Biobank study. Fried food intake was associated with a higher abdominal obesity risk among participants with a lower genetic risk.

Myelinated axons form long-range connections that enable rapid communication between distant brain regions. How genetics governs the strength and organization of these connections remains unclear. We perform genome-wide association studies of 206 structural connectivity measures.

The effect of influenza vaccination (FluVac) on the risk of neurodegenerative diseases has not been well evaluated in prospective populations. We aimed to assess the association between FluVac and risk of dementia and Parkinson's disease (PD) in people aged 60 years or older through a prospective population-based cohort from the UK Biobank.

SUGAR is a unified unsupervised deep-learning framework for both rigid and non-rigid registration. It incorporates a U-Net-based spherical graph attention network and leverages the Euler angle representation for deformation. SUGAR achieves remarkable sub-second processing times, offering a notable speed-up of approximately 12,000 times.

Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is one of the most common functional gastrointestinal disorders. Few studies have evaluated mortality risks among individuals with IBS. We explored the association between IBS and all-cause and cause-specific mortality in the UK Biobank. We found that earlier during follow-up, having diagnosed IBS was associated with lower mortality risk.

Study involved 179,565 participants from UK Biobank, tracking incident atrial fibrillation (AF) cases. Iron intake was categorized into low, moderate, and high groups based on dietary surveys conducted from 2009 to 2012. High iron intake was associated with increased risk of AF.

Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) is influenced by genetic, environmental, and ageing factors. Ageing pathways exacerbate metabolic diseases. Study aimed to examine both clinical and genetic factors of T2D in older adults.

Light at night, which may cause circadian disruption, is a potential pancreatic cancer risk factor. Evidence from related exposures such as poor sleep health and shift work remains inconclusive and sparsely investigated.

A low-inflammatory diet is associated with a lower risk of death and could prolong survival time. CMDs may partially mediate the IDI-mortality association. A favorable lifestyle beyond diet may augment the positive effect of a low- inflammatory diet on longevity.

A total of 176,352 participants from the UK Biobank with at least one web-based dietary questionnaire (Oxford WebQ) for assessment of sugar intake were included in this study. Mean follow-up lasted 10.9 years (standard deviation 2.0), with 12,355 incident cases of CVD. FS intake showed a J-shaped relationship with CVD risk, reaching the lowest HR (HR-nadir) at 9 %E.

We conducted a European-only and transancestral genome-wide association meta-analysis in 72,147 stroke patients and 823,869 controls. Using Mendelian randomization, we further show that genetic variation in the nitric oxide synthase-nitric oxide pathway in part affects stroke risk via variation in blood pressure. Ann Neurol 2018;84:934-939.

Loss of function variants in NOTCH1 cause left ventricular outflow tract obstructive defects (LVOTO) The risk conferred by rare and noncoding variants in NotCH1 for LVOTO remains largely uncharacterized. In a cohort of 49 families affected by hypoplastic left heart syndrome, a severe form of LVOTO, we discovered predicted loss of function NOTCh1 variants in 6% of individuals.

Copy number variants (CNVs) have been shown to increase risk for physical anomalies, developmental, psychiatric and medical disorders. As most studies have been performed on children and young people, these effects of CNVs in middle-aged and older people are not well established. The UK Biobank recruited half a million adults who provided a variety of physical measurements.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) could improve screening and prevention strategies. The lifetime risk of overall breast cancer in the top centile of the PRSs was 32.6%. Compared with women in the middle quintile, the highest 1% of risk had 4.37- and 2.78-fold risks.

Erectile dysfunction (ED) is a common condition affecting more than 20% of men over 60 years. Little is known about its genetic architecture. Mendelian randomization provides evidence that genetic risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus is a cause of ED.

We show via simulations with real genotypes that the method, functionally informed novel discovery of risk loci (FINDOR), correctly controls the false-positive rate at null loci. We applied FINDOR to 27 independent complex traits and diseases from the interim UK Biobank release (average N = 130K) Averaged across traits, we attained a 13% increase in genome-wide significant loci detected (including a 20% increase for disease traits)

Osteoporosis is a common aging-related disease diagnosed primarily using bone mineral density (BMD) We assessed genetic determinants of BMD as estimated by heel quantitative ultrasound in 426,824 individuals. We identified 13 bone fracture loci, all associated with estimated BMD (eBMD), in ~1.2 million individuals.

For binary traits, the logistic model has not yielded clear improvements over the linear model. We introduce the quasi-Laplace approximation to solve the integral and avoid MCMC sampling. B-LORE also enables meta-analysis by approximating the likelihood functions of individual studies by multivariate normal distributions.

High adiposity is associated with higher risks for a variety of adverse health outcomes, including higher rates of age-adjusted mortality and increased morbidity. This has important implications for the management of healthcare systems. We studied the association between various measures of adiposity and inpatient hospital costs.

Out-of-Core Matrices Analyzer (OCMA) is a disk-based tool that can nimbly perform eigen and Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) analyses. By integrating memory mapping (mmap) and the latest matrix factorization libraries, our tool is fast and memory-efficient.

Suicide accounts for nearly 800,000 deaths per year worldwide with rates of both deaths and attempts rising. Family studies have estimated substantial heritability of suicidal behavior, but collecting the sample sizes necessary for successful genetic studies has remained a challenge. We utilized two different approaches to characterize the contribution of common genetic variation to suicide attempt.

Gout was present in 6768 (4.1%) men and 574 (0.3%) women, with an odds ratio (95% confidence interval) for men 13.42 (12.32-14.62) compared with women. In men, experiment-wide association with gout was observed for 21 of the 30 serum urate-associated SNPs tested. Evidence for gene-sex interaction was seen for ABCG2 (rs2231142) and PDZK1 (rs1471633)

Osteoarthritis is the most common musculoskeletal disease and the leading cause of disability globally. We discovered 64 signals, 52 of them novel, more than doubling the number of established disease loci. Ten of the likely effector genes, including TGFB1 (transforming growth factor beta 1), FGF18 (fibroblast growth factor 18), CTSK (cathepsin K), and IL11 (interleukin 11), are approved or in clinical trials.

Body mass and body fat composition are of clinical interest due to their links to cardiovascular- and metabolic diseases. Fat stored in the trunk has been suggested to be more pathogenic compared to fat stored in other compartments. In this study, we perform genome-wide association studies for the proportion of body fat distributed to the arms, legs and trunk.

Lifestyle factors, e.g. physical activity, moderate the manifestation of genetic susceptibility to obesity. Study uses UK Biobank data to investigate interaction between polygenic scores (PGS) and lifestyle and psychosocial factors.

Little is known about the genetic architecture of healthy thinness. Here, we characterise the heritability of thinness which we found was comparable to that of severe obesity. In a genome-wide association analysis, we identified 10 loci previously associated with obesity.

Phenotypic correlations among partners for traits such as longevity or late-onset disease have been found to be comparable to those in first-degree relatives. How these correlations arise in late life is poorly understood. Here we introduce a novel paradigm to establish the presence of indirect assortment on factors correlated across generations.

Higher genetically predicted BMI increases the risk of being diagnosed with or dying from any cancer. These data suggest that increased overall weight may causally increase overall cancer incidence and mortality among Europeans.

Negative selection can cause rare variants to have larger per-allele effect sizes than common variants. We estimate &#945; for 25 UK Biobank diseases and complex traits. Despite larger rare variant effect sizes, rare variants (MAF) remain common.

Microbiome-wide association studies have highlighted associations between the gut microbiome and complex traits, including type 2 diabetes (T2D) and obesity. We leveraged information from 952 normoglycemic individuals for whom genome-wide genotyping, gut metagenomic sequence and fecal short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) levels were available. We found that the host-genetic-driven increase in gut production of the SCFA butyrate was associated with improved insulin response after an oral glucose-tolerance test.

Body-fat distribution is a risk factor for adverse cardiovascular health consequences. We analyzed the association of body- fat distribution, assessed by waist-to-hip ratio adjusted for body mass index, with 228,985 predicted coding and splice site variants.

With the availability of large-scale biobanks, genome-wide scale phenome-wide association studies are being instrumental in discovering novel genetic variants associated with clinical phenotypes. Because the binary phenotypes in biobank-based studies are mostly unbalanced in their case-control ratios, very few methods can provide well-calibrated tests for associations. We propose two meta-analysis strategies that can efficiently combine association results with such unbalanced phenotypes, using the saddlepoint approximation-based score test method.

UK Biobank is an open access, population-based study of > 500,000 adults aged 40-69 years at recruitment in 2006-2010. From 17,198 participants recruited in Edinburgh, we identified those with &#8805; 1 dementia code in their linked primary care, hospital admissions or mortality data.

Self-reported tiredness or low energy, often referred to as fatigue, has been linked to low levels of circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD), a biomarker of vitamin D status. Although it is uncertain if the association is causal, fatigue is a common indication for testing, and correcting, low 25OHD-levels. We used two-sample Mendelian randomization to test for genetic evidence of a causal association.

Genome-wide association studies have reported 56 independently associated colorectal cancer (CRC) risk variants. Most of these variants are non-coding and believed to exert their effects by modulating gene expression. In this study, we used reference datasets from colon and whole blood transcriptomes to test CRC association with genetically determined expression levels.

Cross-sectional study utilized the United Kingdom Biobank. The primary outcomes were the effect of age, the presence of metabolic syndrome, the time of day, and the month of the year.

The beneficial effects of exercise on reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease are established. However, the potential interaction between genetic risk for type 2 diabetes and physical activity on cardiovascular outcomes remains elusive. We aimed to investigate the effect of type. 2 diabetes genetic risk-physical activity interaction on cardiovascular. outcomes in individuals with diabetes.

The prevalence of cardiometabolic multimorbidity (CMDs) has increased rapidly in recent years. The association between CMDs and cardiovascular incidence in middle-aged adults remains unclear. The data were derived from the UK Biobank, and a total of 71,923 participants aged 40-55 years old without CVD were included in the main analyses.

Bayesian network-based Mendelian randomization (BNMR) is a Bayesian causal learning and inference framework using individual-level data. BNMR employs the random graph forest, an ensemble Bayesian network structural learning process, to prioritize candidate genetic variants and select appropriate instrumental variables. Simulations demonstrate BN MR can efficiently reduce the false-positive discoveries in variant selection.

A requisite property for interpretability and generalizability of CCA/PLS associations is stability of their feature patterns. We found that when sample size is relatively small, but comparable to typical studies, associations are highly unstable and inaccurate. We further developed a power calculator to provide sample sizes required for stability.

Analysis included 110,692 participants aged 39-71 years at baseline (2006-2010) Incident chronic diseases were identified using inpatient records, or death registers until January 2021. chronological age-adjusted age gap (CAAG) was significantly associated with the incidence of 25 out of 50 chronic diseases. Greater CAAG was associated with increased risk of eight cardiometabolic disorders.

Osteoporosis is the most common metabolic bone disease globally. Recent studies have linked higher white matter hyperintensities (WMH) to reduced BMD, increasing the risk of fractures and falls in older adults. However, limited evidence exists regarding the dose-response relationship between WMH and bone health in a larger and younger population.

64 268 adults aged 37 to 73 years who had no IBS diagnosis at baseline were enrolled between 2006 and 2010 and followed up to 2022. The five healthy lifestyle behaviours studied were never smoking, optimal sleep, high level of vigorous physical activity, high dietary quality and moderate alcohol intake.

Study aimed to examine the association of liver enzymes with type 2 diabetes (T2D) risk. Liver enzymes were non-linearly associated with T2D risk in different populations, including China, the UK, and the US. Elevated ALT and GGT levels, within a certain range, could increase T1D risk.

Coeliac disease (CeD) has been associated with a broad range of diseases in observational data. We conducted a phenome-wide Mendelian randomization analysis (MR-PheWAS) to investigate the comorbidities of CeD. Genetic liability to CeD was associated with higher risk of several autoimmune diseases.

Air pollution is associated with lower lung function, and both are associated with premature mortality and cardiovascular disease. Evidence remains scarce on the potential mediating effect of impaired lung function on the association between air pollution and mortality or CVD. We used data from UK Biobank (n&#8764;200 000 individuals) with 8-year follow-up to mortality and incident CVA.

The association of pre-diabetes and type 2 diabetes (T2D) with incident lung cancer is uncertain, and the incident risk across the glycemic spectrum is unclear. We aimed to explore the associations of glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c), pre-Diabetes, and T2D with incident Lung cancer in a large prospective cohort.

Protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) are an invaluable source of information for drug target development. Using Olink proteomics data for 1,463 proteins measured in over 54,000 samples of the UK Biobank, we identified 4,248 associations with 2,821 ratios between protein levels.

Analysis included 110,354 APOE4 carriers and 220,708 age- and sex-matched controls aged 40-73 years at baseline (between 2006-2010) Incident dementia was ascertained using hospital inpatient, or death records until January 2021. For only 2 risk factors (mother's history of dementia, low C-reactive protein), their associations with incident all-cause dementia were stronger in APoe4 carriers. For 20 risk factors including multimorbidity risk score, unhealthy lifestyle habits, and particulate matter air pollutants, their associations were stronger with incident dementia.

Both internalizing disorders and alcohol use have dramatic, wide-spread implications for global health. Previous work has established common phenotypic comorbidity among these disorders, as well as shared genetic variation underlying them both. We examined patterns of genetic correlations between similar traits within additional Finnish and East Asian ancestry groups.

Niacin is an essential micronutrient fortified in food staples, but its role in CVD is not well understood. Serum levels of the terminal metabolites of excess niacin, N1-methyl-2-pyridone-5-carboxamide (2PY) and 4PY, were associated with increased 3-year MACE risk in two validation cohorts.

Cataract is one of the most prevalent causes of blindness worldwide. Surgery is the primary treatment for cataracts, but it is not always an available option. Several studies have investigated how topical application of oxysterols, such as lanosterol, may break down aggregated proteins and restore lens transparency.

The risks of respiratory diseases following SARS-CoV-2 infection have not been comprehensively understood. This study aimed to investigate whether COVID-19 increases the long-term risk of respiratory illness. Respiratory outcomes diagnosed in medical records included common chronic pulmonary diseases (asthma, bronchiectasis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and lung cancer.

Assortative mating (AM), participation bias and socioeconomic status (SES) with respect to the genetics of behavioural and psychiatric traits were investigated. Cross-method meta-analysis identified AM genetic signatures for multiple alcohol-related phenotypes, bipolar disorder and schizophrenia.

Diabetes mellitus (DM) is associated with structural grey matter alterations in the brain, including changes in the somatosensory and pain processing regions. In this case-controlled biobank study, we aimed to ascertain differences in grey and white matter anatomy in people with DM compared with non-diabetic controls.

Urban living is synonymous with a higher exposure to environmental stressors such as air pollution and associated physiological stress. We found that living in areas with higher air pollutants was associated with higher CPS. Higher residential greenness was inversely associated with CPS.

The earliest ages at which metabolic perturbations occur and how these change over time are yet to be elucidated. Mechanisms through which most known Alzheimer's disease (AD) loci operate to increase AD risk remain unclear. We examined the effects of AD genetic liability on the plasma metabolome across the life course.

Study aimed to calculate relationships between long-term exposure to ambient sulfur dioxide (SO2), carbon monoxide (CO), ozone (O3), and benzene and CKD in the UK. Risk of CKD increased non-linearly with increasing SO2, high O3 days, and CO.

Mood disorders have a genetic and environmental component and interactions (GxE) on the risk of psychiatric diseases have been investigated. The same GxE interactions may affect wellbeing measures, which go beyond categorical diagnoses and reflect the health-disease continuum.

Previous studies reported leucocyte telomere length (LTL) and frailty were associated with mortality. It remains unclear whether frailty serves as a mediator in the relationship between LTL and mortality risk. This study aimed to evaluate how measuring LTL can support early monitoring and prevention of risk of mortality.

The idea of estimating the chronological age from magnetic resonance images proved to be an interesting field of research due to the relative simplicity of its interpretation. We revised our previous BrainAGE approach, originally utilising relevance vector regression (RVR), and substituted it with Gaussian process regression (GPR) We tested the performance of the new algorithms under several different conditions and investigated their validity on the ADNI and schizophrenia samples.

East Asians had a 38% lower 5-year incidence rate compared with Caucasians. East Asians consuming alcohol &#8805;3 times/week showed a higher incidence of the primary outcome. Study revealed significant racial differences in bleeding incidence, influenced by anatomical sites and lifestyle habits.

Clinical trials and Mendelian randomization studies reported null effects of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) on risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) We aimed to investigate the dose-response relationship between circulating HDL-C concentrations and CVD.

Genome-wide association statistics were obtained from the UK Biobank for multisite chronic pain. MCP was positively genetically correlated with AUD, CanUD, OUD, and PTU. The genome-wide analysis identified two SNPs pleiotropic between MCP and all SUD investigated.

Clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) associates with increased risk of both hematological malignancy and cardiovascular disease. CHIP is known to increase the risk of myocardial infarction and heart failure. The influence of CHIP in cardiac arrhythmias, such as atrial fibrillation (AF), is less explored.

The understanding of the molecular genetic contributions to smoking is largely limited to the additive effects of individual single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) The underlying genetic risk is likely to also include dominance, epistatic, and gene-environment interactions. We attempted to identify genetic interactions between SNPs and genes across the genome.

Mendelian Randomisation (MR) estimates causal effects between risk factors and complex outcomes using genetic instruments. Pleiotropic, heritable confounders, and heterogeneous causal effects violate MR assumptions and can lead to biases. We propose an approach employing a Phenome-Wide association Clustering of the MR instruments (PWC-MR) to revisit the surprisingly large apparent causal effect of body mass index (BMI) on educational attainment (EDU)

We exploited Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools to explore whether differences in clinical measurements following lifestyle interventions in overweight population could be reflected in brain morphology. We utilized an ensemble learning framework to predict Body-Mass Index (BMI) scores, which correspond to adiposity-related clinical measurements from brain MRIs.

A cohort study of 259,435 female participants in the UK Biobank was conducted to estimate hazard ratio (HR) for breast cancer according to 9 inflammation markers. Higher level of C-reactive protein (CRP), systemic immune-inflammation index (SII), CRP-to-albumin Ratio (CAR) and other markers were associated with increased breast cancer risk.

Study included 220,963 UK Biobank participants without dementia at baseline. Participants with high air pollution score and high genetic susceptibility had higher risk of dementia.

Study aimed to explore associations between different types of meat consumption and mortality risk among people with frailty. Higher consumption of unprocessed poultry (per 25 g/day increment) was associated with a lower risk of all-cause mortality. Fish consumption was not associated with all types of mortality.

Elevated lipoprotein(a) (Lp[a]) is a putative causal risk factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) There are conflicting data as to whether Lp(a), may increase cardiovascular risk only in the presence of concomitant inflammation. This cohort study uses data from 3 cohorts, 1 population-based cohort and 2 randomized clinical trials.

How physical activity (PA) and different sleep traits and overall sleep pattern interact in the development of Parkinson's disease (PD) remain unknown. To prospectively investigate the joint associations of PA and sleep pattern with risk of PD.

 models with polygenic risk scores and clinical factors to predict risk of different cancers have been developed. These models have been limited by the polygenicrisk score-derivation methods and the incomplete selection of clinical variables. We used UK Biobank to train the best risk scores for 8 cancers and select relevant clinical variables from 733 baseline traits.

Genomic instability can lead to the sequestration of DNA in aberrant extranuclear structures called micronuclei (MN) MN are a hallmark of ageing and diseases associated with genomic instability. Here we analyse 997 mouse mutant lines, revealing 145 genes whose loss significantly increases or decreases MN formation. We found that mice null for Dscc1 showed the most significant increase in MN.

Study obtained UK Biobank data from 82,829 individuals with wrist-worn accelerometer data aged 40 to 79 years. Interdaily stability (a measure of regularity, hazard ratio [HR] per SD increase 1.25, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.05-1.48) and diurnal amplitude (HR 0.79, CI 0.65-0.96) were associated with risk of AD. Several measures were additionally predictive of longitudinal cognitive test performance. These findings suggest 24-h rhythm integrity, as measured by affordable, non-invasive wearable devices, may serve as a scalable early marker of neurodegenerative disease.

 mitochondrial dysfunction in the pathogenesis of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and acute kidney injury (AKI) Little is known regarding the impact of common mitochondrial genetic variation on kidney health. We evaluated associations of inherited mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) variation with risk of CKD and AKI in a large population-based cohort.

Study included participants from the UK Biobank recruited from 2006 to 2010. During a mean follow-up of 12.61 years, 13 789 participants were first diagnosed with heart failure. There was a nonlinear (J-shaped) trend between outdoor light time and heart failure risk.

Female reproductive factors may influence the development of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) through the female hormonal environment. Study aimed to assess whether age at menarche, number of children, infertility, miscarriage, stillbirth and age at natural menopause were associated with the risk of COPD.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) is useful for capturing an individual's genetic susceptibility. We explored the potential of integrating disease-related RFPRSs with disease PRS to enhance disease prediction performance. RFDiseasemetaPRS showed better performance for Nagelkerke's pseudo-R2, odds ratio (OR) per 1 SD and net reclassification improvement (NRI) values.

Parkinson's disease is the world's fastest-growing neurological disorder. Current diagnostic methods are expensive and have limited availability. A desirable screening should be diagnostically accurate even before the onset of symptoms.

Sleep disturbances are implicated as risk factors of both stroke and dementia. We analyzed 502,383 UK Biobank participants with self-reported sleep measurements. Almost all sleep measures were associated with dementia risk but not with SVD markers.

Knee OA was defined using International Classification of Diseases manual 10 codes. Central mechanisms were proxied using multisite chronic pain (MCP) and peripheral mechanisms using body mass index (BMI) Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated, and proportional risk contribution (PRC) was estimated.

Maternal and fetal genetic variants associated with higher birthweight predict larger cortical surface area. The relative dominance of the maternal vs. fetal variants in these associations show striking variations across birth years. The birth-year patterns vary as a function of the epigenetic status near genes differentially methylated in individuals exposed (or not) to famine during the Dutch Winter of 1944/1945.

Sex-specific associations of sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and bioavailable testosterone (BAT) with NAFLD remain indeterminate. We aimed to explore observational and genetically determined relationships between each hormone andNAFLD. We included 187 395 men and 170 193 women from the UK Biobank.

GFAP, NEFL, GDF15 and LTBP2 consistently associated most with incident all-cause dementia (ACD), Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD) Individuals with higher GFAP levels were 2.32 times more likely to develop dementia.

Evidence exists for a causal association between 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) serum levels, and multiple sclerosis (MS) The role of variation in vitamin D receptor (VDR) binding in MS is unknown. We leveraged previously identified variants associated with allele imbalance in VDR binding.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is highly prevalent among Indigenous Australians. The rate of end-stage renal disease is up to 20 times greater in this population compared to non-Indigenous populations. Despite the identification of numerous genetic loci associated with kidney disease through GWAS, the Indigenous population such as Tiwi remains severely underrepresented.

NMR profiling of blood by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) is invaluable to clinical biomarker discovery. Preanalytical variation in the method of blood collection strongly influences metabolite composition within and between biobanks. In the healthy control cohort, the fluoride oxalate collection tube prevented fluctuation in glucose and lactate levels for 24 hours at either 4 &#176;C or room temperature.

Familial partial lipodystrophy (FPLD) is a heterogenous group of syndromes associated with a high prevalence of cardiometabolic diseases. Prior work has proposed DEXA-derived fat mass ratio (FMR) as a biomarker of FPLD. Participants with high FMR were at higher risk for type 2 diabetes, metabolic dysfunction-associated liver disease or steatohepatitis.

Resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI) can be used to identify biomarkers of these conditions and study patterns of abnormal connectivity. In this work, we estimate mental health quality for individual participants using static functional network connectivity (sFNC) data.

High-potassium intake is associated with a lower risk of cardiovascular disease. However, the association between potassium intake and the development of chronic kidney disease (CKD) remains unclear. The main predictor was spot urine potassium-to-creatinine ratio.

Previous studies have demonstrated effects of rare coding variants on common, clinically relevant phenotypes. This study attempted to identify pairs of variants likely to be occurring as compound heterozygotes using 200,000 exome-sequenced subjects from the UK Biobank.

Chinese and British patients with diabetes mellitus were more likely to have low-level PA compared with the general population. Female, rural-distributed, employed, never-smoking Chinese diabetics, and male, urban-distribution, retired/unemployed, quit-smoking British diabeticics were morelikely to have PA.

Peripheral vertigo is often comorbid with psychiatric disorders. No longitudinal study has quantified the association between peripheral vertigo and risk of psychiatric disorder. It remains unknown how the white matter integrity of frontal-limbic network relates to the putative vertigo-psychiatric disorder link.

Study aimed to investigate the association between long-term use of antibiotics during childhood and the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) Using a prospective cohort from the UK Biobank.

The total heritability, including common and rare variants, recovered pedigree-based estimates for 11 traits. RARity can estimate gene-level h2RV and reveal 11, previously unreported, gene-phenotype relationships.

Gout is a chronic disorder characterized by the accumulation of uric acid in the body, leading to recurrent episodes of joint inflammation and pain. There remains a lack of studies investigating the association between long-term exposure to ambient air pollution and the incidence of gout. We conducted a prospective cohort study involving participants aged 38-70 from the UK Biobank.

Habitual use of fish oil supplements showed a 24% lower dementia risk among older diabetic patients. Such inverse association was not modified by the APOE &#949;4 genotype. consumption of both oily fish and non-oily fish had no significant association with dementia risk.

Recent studies have shown that incorporating functional annotation can improve the predictive performance of polygenic risk scores (PRSs) PRS methods that employ a Bayesian framework with shrinkage can account for such sparsity. We propose a PRS method, PRSbils, which utilizes the functional annotation information with a bilevel continuous shrinkage prior.

Automated online and App-based cognitive assessment tasks are becoming increasingly popular in large-scale cohorts and biobanks. The summary scores that such tasks generate typically conflate the cognitive processes that are the intended focus of assessment with basic visuo-motor speeds and testing device latencies. This lack of precision presents a fundamental limitation when studying brain-behaviour associations.

The detrimental health effects of smoking are well-known, but the impact of regular nicotine use without exposure to the other constituents of tobacco is less clear. Given the increasing daily use of alternative nicotine delivery systems, such as e-cigarettes, it is increasingly important to understand and separate the effects of nicotine use from tobacco smoke exposure.

Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) have been linked with increased risk of diabetes and obesity during adulthood. A comprehensive assessment on the associations between childhood maltreatment and all major endocrine diseases is currently lacking. We constructed a cohort including 151,659 participants with self-reported data on childhood malt treatment.

The precise roles of chromatin organization at osteoporosis risk loci remain largely elusive. Here, we combined chromatin interaction conformation (Hi-C) profiling and self-transcribing active regulatory region sequencing (STARR-seq) to qualify enhancer activities of prioritized SNPs.

High cognitive reserve is associated with reduced risk of dementia and may delay dementia onset. Genetic risk for dementia may be mitigated by high cognitive reserve. Our findings underscore the importance of enhancing cognitive reserve in dementia prevention.

Anxiety/stress-related disorders have been associated with multiple diseases. A comprehensive assessment of the structure and interplay of subsequent associated diseases and their genetic underpinnings is lacking. By combining findings from the comorbidity network and disease trajectory analyses, we identify five robust disease clusters to be associated with a prior diagnosis.

Evidence suggests that infections may play a major role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) mechanism is unclear, as multiple pathways may be involved. One possibility is that infections could contribute to neurodegeneration directly by promoting neuronal death. We explored relationships between history of infections and brain hippocampal volume (HV) in a subsample of UK Biobank participants.

Cardiac arrhythmias are considered an early clinical stage for cardiovascular diseases. Whether napping frequency is associated with incident arrhythias remains unknown. Usually napping was significantly associated with higher risks of AF/Af and bradyarrhythmia.

Migraine is a common neurological disorder that affects more than one billion people worldwide. Recent genome-wide association studies have identified 123 genetic loci associated with migraine risk. The biological mechanisms underlying migraine and its relationships with other complex diseases remain unclear.

 generalized linkage disequilibrium score regression (g-LDSC) requires only genome-wide association studies (GWASs) summary-level data to estimate functional enrichment. Results typically implicate tissue or cell-type-specific biological pathways in disease pathogenesis.

Multiple evidence has suggested the complex interplay between Parkinson's disease (PD) and systemic inflammation marked by C-reactive protein (CRP) and interleukin 6 (IL-6) But the direction of the effect remains controversial. Here, we aimed to explore the link between CRP and IL-6 and the risk of PD. A higher level of CRP at baseline was associated with a lower risk ofPD.

Little is known about the relationship between body composition and fat distribution with depression risk. We included 330,131 participants without depression at baseline in the UK Biobank. High levels of body composition measures were associated with an increased Depression risk.

Oestrone, predominantly made in fat, is the main circulating oestrogen. It is important for target tissue oestradiol production in women after menopause. Study looked at associations between genetic loci and endometrial cancer.

Ozone exposure was associated with higher levels of arterial stiffness. In contrast, fish oil consumption showed a protective association. The association between ozone exposure and stiffness was partially mediated by some biomarkers. In the general population,Fish oil consumption might provide protection against ozone-related AS.

APOL1 variants G1 and G2 are common in populations with recent African ancestry. They are associated with protection from African sleeping sickness. However homozygosity or compound heterozygosity for these variants is associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD)

Hypobetalipoproteinemia (HBL) is a lipid disorder characterized by permanent, inherited low levels (below the 5th percentile) of low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol. HBL is associated with a markedly increased risk of hepatic complications.

The rationale for oophorectomy during female cystectomy is not adequately supported. The co-occurrence and timing of bladder cancer (BC) and ovarian cancer (OC) in females harboring OC germline mutations remain unclear. We used genetic and phenotypic data from the UK Biobank.

We explore relation between age at menarche, parity and age at natural menopause with 249 metabolic traits in over 65,000 UK Biobank women. Older age is related to a less atherogenic metabolic profile in multivariable regression and Mendelian randomization.

A total of 75,293 patients with diagnosed hypertension from the UK Biobank study were included, matched with 256,619 nonhypertensive controls, and followed up until May 31, 2021. Seven risk factors were measured to define joint risk factor control, including blood pressure, body mass index, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, hemoglobin A 1c , albuminuria, smoking, and physical activity.

Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a serious complication of brain arteriovenous malformation (AVM) Apolipoprotein E (APOE) &#949;4 is a well-known genetic risk factor for ICH among persons without AVM. cerebral amyloid angiopathy is a vasculopathy frequently observed in APOE &#999;4 carriers that may increase the risk of ICH.

Cross-sectional study analyzed data from a UK Biobank cohort of individuals aged 45 to 80 years. Participants included individuals with a lifetime exposure to depression and matched healthy controls without indications of psychosis, mental illness, behavior disorder, and disease of the nervous system. Across all depression criteria, individuals with lifetime depression displayed regionally consistent decreases in fALFF, LCOR, and GCOR.

The potential impact of renal function-related cardiovascular remodeling on associated cardiovascular risk has not been previously investigated. Using multiple Cox models, we found lower renal function was independently related to increased risks of various cardiovascular events and mortalities.

The appropriateness of hypertension thresholds for triggering action to prevent cardiovascular and renal complications among non-White populations in the UK is subject to question. Our objective was to establish ethnicity-specific systolic blood pressure (SBP) cutoffs for ethnic minority populations and assess the efficacy of these cutoffs in predicting adverse outcomes.

Study used data on White British participants from the prospective cohort UK Biobank. Genome-wide interaction analysis was performed to test interactions between dietary factors and variants. A total of 324 variants were identified that interacted with diet consumption at the suggestive threshold (P)

Three prospective cohorts analyzed data from adults with diabetes from the Incident, Development, and Prognosis of Diabetic Kidney Disease (INDEED) study (2016-17 to 2020) in China. National Health Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) in the USA and UK Biobank (UKB, 2006-10 to 2022) in UK.

An increasing body of evidence indicates an association between consuming sugar or its alternatives and cardiometabolic diseases. This prospective, population-based cohort study analyzed data from the UK Biobank. During a median (IQR) follow-up of 10.5 (10.4-11.2) years, 4459 cases of incident CKD occurred.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained arrhythmia and is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Hearing impairment has been linked to several cardiovascular diseases. The association between hearing disorders, genetic predisposition, and new-onset AF remains largely unknown.

The prevalence of chronic kidney disease (CKD) is high. Identification of cases with CKD is important to tailor early interventions. The objective of this study was to identify blood metabolites associated with prevalent and incident severe CKD.

Single-cell and spatial transcriptomics analysis of human knee articular cartilage tissue to present a comprehensive transcriptome landscape and osteoarthritis (OA)-critical cell populations. We identified 33 cell population-specific marker genes that define 11 chondrocyte populations.

GAUDI is a penalized-regression-based method specifically designed for admixed individuals. GAUDI explicitly models ancestry-differential effects while borrowing information across segments with shared ancestry in admixed genomes. We show that GAUDi improves PRS prediction of white blood cell count and C-reactive protein in African Americans by > 64% compared to alternative methods.

A total of 328,606 participants (54% women) were included using data from the UK Biobank. An unhealthy lifestyle was significantly associated with an increased CAD risk. Lifestyle factors explained 41% (95% CI = 38%-45%) of CAD, while genetic variants for BMI explained only 10%. Risks of CAD were increased with poorer HLS independent of obesity-related PGSs.

Much remains unknown regarding the associations of adversities in childhood and adulthood with incident cardiovascular diseases (CVD) We aimed to examine whether these associations can be mitigated by adopting a healthy lifestyle later in life. We included 136,073 men and women free of diagnosed CVD at baseline.

The establishment of 3&#697;aQTLs comprehensive database provides an opportunity to help explore the functional interpretation from the genome-wide association study (GWAS) data of psychiatric disorders. The GWAS datasets of five psychiatric disorders were collected from the open platform of Psychiatric Genomics Consortium (PGC, https://www.med.unc.edu/pgc/) and iPSYCH. For schizophrenia (SCZ), HLA-A showed associated with psychiatric disorders in all 12 brain regions, such as cerebellar hemisphere.

Study comprised a total of 61,115 participants without a prior T2DM from the UK Biobank database. Four trajectory groups of dietary iron intake were characterized by the GBTM: trajectory group 1, 2, 3 and 4. Trajectory group 3 was significantly associated with a 38% decreased risk of T2 DM.

Previous studies on physical activity (PA) and pelvic organ prolapse (POP) were largely limited to self-reported PA in athletes, soldiers, and women in postpartum. We aimed to investigate the association of accelerometer-measured PA and sedentary behavior with the risk of POP in middle-aged and elderly women.

Study included 460,234 participants aged 40 to 69 years, who were initially free of T2D. MSAB and breastfeeding were collected by questionnaire. Alternative health eating index(AHEI) and dietary inflammation index(DII) were calculated.

Giant cell arteritis (GCA) is an age-related vasculitis. Previous studies have identified an association between GCA and hematologic malignancies. How the presence of somatic mutations that drive the development of HMs may influence clinical outcomes in GCA is not well understood.

The study identified 4093 common genetic variants, involving 1248 gene loci, that contributed to blood-cancer pleiotropism. Pleiotropic gene candidates are frequently linked to transcriptional programs that regulate hematopoiesis. Eosinophil count is inversely associated with cancer risk.

The role of sex-specific risk factors during midlife, including hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and their interaction with other major risk factors for Alzheimer's Disease, such as apolipoprotein E (APOE)-e4 genotype and age, remains unclear. Women from the UK Biobank with no self-reported neurological conditions were included (N = 207,595 women, mean age = 56.25 years, standard deviation = 8.01 years)

In this study we use aggregated weighted scores of environmental effects to study environmental influences on well-being and happiness. We find that the PES-S explains about &#8764;12% of the variance in happiness. These predictive values did not change during the COVID-19 pandemic (N = 3214)

Hearing loss and tinnitus have been proposed as potential indicators of impaired mental health and brain morphological changes. We conducted a community-based cohort study including 129 610 participants aged 40-69 years at recruitment to the UK Biobank.

Myocardial infarction is a leading cause of death globally but is notoriously difficult to predict. We aimed to identify biomarkers of an imminent first myocardialinfarction and design relevant prediction models. Brain natriuretic peptide was most consistently associated with the risk.

Study aimed to examine the associations between air pollutants and the risk of incident musculoskeletal diseases. PM 2.5 and PM2.5-10 exhibited the most significant effect on elevated risk. Individuals with extreme BMI or lower socioeconomic status had a higher risk.

Air pollution (AP) and impaired lipid metabolism contribute to type 2 diabetes (T2D) Little is known about the detailed associations of AP to lipidomic markers. We aimed to examine the associations between long-term AP exposure, plasma metabolomic markers, and incident T2D. We identified six PCS representing distinct metabolic patterns.

 Creativity is known to be heritable and exhibits familial aggregation with psychiatric disorders. The complex nature of their relationship has not been well-established. We demonstrate that using an expanded and validated machine learning (ML)-based phenotyping of occupational creativity can allow us to further understand the trait of creativity.

Study included 307 304 British participants from the United Kingdom Biobank. Over a median follow-up duration of 13.67 years, a total of 2476 initial IS events were detected.

Regular participation in aerobic physical activity is associated with a reduced risk of dementia. It is currently unclear whether this association is due to the total volume or intensity of physical activity. The study analyzed 386,486 adults from the UK Biobank.

There is limited information on modifiable risk factors for young-onset dementia (YOD) This prospective cohort study used data from the UK Biobank, with baseline assessment between 2006 and 2010. During 2 891 409 person-years of follow-up, 485 incident YOD cases (251 of 485 men [51.8%]) were observed. 15 factors were significantly associated with a higher YOD risk. These factors should be incorporated in future dementia prevention initiatives.

It remained unclear whether central blood pressures (BP) was more closely associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD) than brachial BP in different age groups. Study included 34 289 adults without baseline CVD from the UK Biobank dataset.

Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a common cause of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage in older patients. The association between CAA and other subtypes of intracranial hemorrhage remains poorly understood. To determine whether CAA is an independent risk factor for isolated nontraumatic subdural hemorrhage, data were analyzed from October 2022 to October 2023.

Recent studies have indicated that the number of individuals living with pain has risen in recent years. Nearly half of all adults in some countries living with some form of pain. Researchers have focused on differences in pain across different sociodemographic groups. However, studies fail to consider the confounding role of early life characteristics.

Ovarian cancer (OC) is commonly diagnosed among older women who have comorbidities. We analysed OC and OC subtype-specific genetic risk scores (OC-GRS) for an association with 889 diseases and 43 other traits. Mendelian randomizaiton analysis provided robust evidence for the association of OC with higher risk of "secondary malignant neoplasm"

Large differences between estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) based on cystatin C and creatinine occur commonly. We developed 2 prediction models comprising 375,175 participants. Strong predictors of lower eGFRcys were older age, male sex, South Asian ethnicity, current smoker, history of thyroid dysfunction.

Study aims to investigate the effect of Ramadan fasting on the metabolic profile and risk of chronic diseases. Ramadan fasting was associated with changes in 14 metabolites independent of changes in body composition. The metabolic scores for lung cancer, colorectal cancer, and breast cancer were lower after Ramadan.

Mouth ulcers are the most common ulcerative condition and encompass several clinical diagnoses, including recurrent aphthous stomatitis (RAS) Despite previous evidence for heritability, it is not clear which specific genetic loci are implicated in RAS. This study finds 97 variants which alter the odds of developing non-specific mouth ulcers.

Schizophrenia is a debilitating and heritable mental disorder associated with lower reproductive success. The prevalence of schizophrenia is stable over populations and time, resulting in an evolutionary puzzle. One possibility is that increased genetic liability for schizophrenia, in the absence of the disorder itself, may confer some reproductive advantage. We assessed the correlation and causal effect of genetic liability with number of children, age at first birth and number of sexual partners.

Sleep is an essential state of decreased activity and alertness. molecular factors regulating sleep duration remain unknown. We identify 78 loci for self-reported habitual sleep duration (p)

We perform genetic fine-mapping for blood cell traits in the UK Biobank to identify putative causal variants. These variants are enriched in genes encoding proteins in trait-relevant biological pathways and in accessible chromatin of hematopoietic progenitors. We explore patterns of developmental enhancer activity, predict molecular mechanisms, and identify likely target genes.

Comorbidity between coronary heart disease (CHD) and depression is evident. It is unclear whether the two diseases have shared underlying mechanisms. We showed family history of heart disease was associated with a 20% increase in depression risk.

The extent to which genetic risk factors are shared between childhood-onset (COA) and adult-onsets (AOA) asthma has not been estimated. On the basis of data from the UK Biobank study (n = 447,628), we found that the variance in disease liability explained by common variants is higher for COA. Variants associated with obesity and smoking had a stronger contribution to the risk of AOA.

The PERIOD2 (PER2) gene is a core molecular component of the circadian clock. A missense variant of PER2 common in European populations has been shown to associate with later chronotype. Later chronotype is associated with longer intrinsic circadian period.

Obesity is known to be heritable and highly polygenic. The majority of inherited susceptibility is related to the cumulative effect of many common DNA variants. We derive and validate a new polygenic predictor comprised of 2.1 million common variants to quantify this susceptibility.

Sleep is an essential human function but its regulation is poorly understood. Using accelerometer data from 85,670 UK Biobank participants, we perform a genome-wide association study of sleep traits.

Insulin resistance, broadly defined as the reduced ability of insulin to exert its biological action, has been associated with depression and cognitive dysfunction in observational studies. It is unclear whether these associations are causal and whether they might be underpinned by other shared factors. To address this knowledge gap, we capitalized on the stability of genetic biomarkers through the lifetime.

Arterial stiffness index (ASI) is independently associated with blood pressure (BP) and coronary artery disease (CAD) epidemiologically. It is unknown whether these associations represent causal relationships. Here, we assess whether genetic predisposition to increased ASI is associated with elevated BP and CAD risk.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a growing health burden currently affecting 10-15% of adults worldwide. Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) as a marker of kidney function is commonly used to diagnose CKD. We analyze eGFR data from the Nord-Tr&#248;ndelag Health Study and Michigan Genomics Initiative and perform a GWAS meta-analysis.

Only roughly 1% of the adult population has atypically reversed, rightward hemispheric language dominance. The genetic-developmental program that underlies leftward language laterality is unknown, as are the causes of atypical variation.

Recent studies have highlighted the role of gene networks in disease biology. To formally assess this, we constructed a broad set of pathway, network, and pathway+network annotations. We applied stratified LD score regression to 42 diseases and complex traits to identify enriched annotations.

Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) is a common heart valve disease. MVP is characterized by excess extracellular matrix secretion and cellular disorganization. We show that genes at risk loci are involved in biological functions relevant to actin filament organization, cytoskeleton biology, and cardiac development.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for type 2 diabetes have uncovered >400 risk loci, primarily in populations of European and Asian ancestry. Here, we aimed to discover additionaltype 2 diabetes risk loco (including African-specific variants) and fine-map association signals by performing genetic analysis in African populations. We identified 21 with shared causal variants in African and non-African populations.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) are valuable for understanding human biology. But associated loci typically contain multiple associated variants and genes. Algorithms that prioritize likely causal genes and variants for a given phenotype can provide biological interpretations.

Bone area is one measure of bone size that is easily derived from dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scans. In a GWA study of DXA bone area of the hip and lumbar spine, we find thirteen independent association signals at twelve loci that replicate in samples of European and East Asian descent. The strongest DXA area association is with rs11614913[T] in the microRNA MIR196A2 gene.

The human brain demonstrates structural and functional asymmetries which have implications for ageing and mental and neurological disease development. We used a set of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) metrics derived from structural and diffusion MRI data in N=48,040 UK Biobank participants to evaluate age-related differences in brain asymmetry.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) models have transformed the field of genetics. However, the impact of genotype-environment interaction (GxE) on the performance and applicability of PRS models remains a crucial aspect to be explored. We propose novel GxEPRS models that incorporate additive and interaction genetic effects.

Recurrent pericarditis is a treatment challenge and often a debilitating condition. Drugs inhibiting interleukin 1 cytokines are a promising new treatment option, but their use is based on scarce biological evidence and clinical trials of modest sizes. The contributions of innate and adaptive immune processes to the pathophysiology are incompletely understood.

We showed an association between atrial fibrillation and rare loss-of-function (LOF) variants in the cardiac splicing regulator RBM20. We demonstrated altered splicing of sarcomere genes and differential expression in key cardiac genes. Our results implicate alternative splicing as a novel proarrhythmic mechanism in the atria.

 association of candidate single nucleotide variants (SNVs) related to mechanisms of COVID-19 complications has been seldom analysed. Our aim was to test and validate the effect of candidate SNVs on severity. We identified 14 novel SNVs and confirmed eight previously related to severity in the CARGENCORS data. In the meta-analysis, five SNVs were significantly associated to severity.

The relationship between type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and gallstone disease (GSD) has been incompletely understood. We aimed to investigate their phenotypic and genetic associations and evaluate the biological mechanisms underlying these associations. A unidirectional phenotypal association was observed, where individuals with T2DM exhibited a higher GSD risk.

Study used UK Biobank data from 2006 to 2021 (n = 23 685; participant age 40-71 years, 63.5% male) Models showed low-to-moderate discrimination performance on external validation. Most models had low calibration with overprediction of the observed risk.

Adipose stem and precursor cells (ASPCs) are an understudied, yet crucial adipose cell type. We found that the SAT ASPC proportions significantly decrease with age in an obesity-dependent way. We identified 76 genes that are differentially expressed by age in SAT and functionally enriched for developmental processes.

It is unclear whether the atherogenic index of plasma (AIP) is associated with major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs) in the general population. A total of 361,644 participants (aged 56.19 +/- 8.09 years; 44.79% male) free of a history of MACEs at baseline from the UK Biobank data were included in the analysis.

Insulin resistance has been reported to increase the risk of breast, prostate and colorectal cancer. The role of insulin resistance and its interaction with genetic risk in the development of lung cancer remains controversial. We aimed to explore the association between a novel metabolic score for insulin resistance (METS-IR) and lung cancer risk.

Study looked at 84,254 women enrolled in the UK Biobank between 2006 and 2010. There were 2300 cases of type 2 diabetes during an average follow-up of 4.49 years. We found a significant increase in T2D risk across RRS categories.

Psychiatric disorders have been associated with higher risk for future dementia. Understanding how pre-dementia psychiatric disorders (PDPD) relate to established dementia genetic risks has implications for dementia prevention.

Lipoprotein(a) (Lp[a) has been established as a significant factor in cardiovascular disease. Its connection to CKD risk remains a topic of debate. Existing evidence indicates diverse risks of kidney disease among individuals with various renal function indicators, even when within the normal range.

 genome-wide association study meta-analysis of thyroid function in up to 271,040 individuals of European ancestry. Loci explained 14.1%, 6.0%, 9.5% and 1.1% of the total variation in TSH, FT4, total T3 and free T3 concentrations. Polygenic risk score and Mendelian randomization analyses showed the effects of genetically determined variation in thyroid function on various clinical outcomes.

Adherence to a healthy lifestyle may be a low-cost and effective strategy to decrease frailty-induced health risks across different social environments. We included 15 594 frail participants at baseline from the UK Biobank study.

Age-related macular degeneration is the leading cause of central vision loss in the elderly. One-third of the genetic contribution to this disease remains unexplained. We analyzed targeted sequencing data from two independent cohorts.

Physical activity (PA) is recognized as a key bone mass determinant across life. However, athlete studies suggest that it may be less effective in women and older individuals. This has not been explored within the general population. We aimed to address this knowledge gap using data from the UK Biobank Study.

Cardiovascular risk burden is associated with dementia risk and neurodegeneration-related brain structure. The role of genetics and incident cardiovascular disease (CVD) remains unclear. This study examined the association of overall cardiovascular risk burden with the risk of major dementia subtypes.

UK population-based prospective cohort study, involving 385,275 UK Biobank participants. During a median 12.52-year follow-up, 2,131 participants incident PD. Analysis showed that fish oil supplement users had a lower PD risk.

The majority of participants exhibited either vitamin D deficiency (18.3%) or insufficiency (34.0%). Vitamin D deficiency was less prevalent among users of vitamin D (6.9%) or multivitamin preparations (9.5%) than among nonusers (21.5%).

Multiple sclerosis cases and controls were identified in UK Biobank, a longitudinal cohort study of 500,000 British adults. Plasma proteins were assayed in 50,000 participants using the Olink proximity extension assay. Higher levels of plasma proteins involved in coagulation were associated with lower T2 lesion burden and preserved brain volume.

A dataset of 96,487 participants from UK Biobank was included with 1830 cases of incident AOA during an average follow-up of 9.68 years. Participants with the highest intake of total sugar, free sugar, and fiber intake showed a 17% and 22% increased risk of AOA. Substitution of 5 % energy from free sugars with 5% energy from non-free sugars was associated with a significantly lower risk. This study highlights the critical role of carbohydrate types in AOA prevention.

People with atrial fibrillation had an increased future risk of all-cause dementia, Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia. The applicability of our findings to diverse ethnicities might require careful consideration and the behind biological mechanisms need to be further revealed. Atrial fibillation screening and prevention strategies should take into account to prevent and delay the onset of dementia.

Elevated hemoglobin A1C (AOR = 2.01 [1.35, 2.88]) was associated with increased dementia incidence. Indicators of liver dysfunction: elevated gamma glutamyltransferase and albumin. Both low and high concentrations of insulin-like growth factor 1 were found to be risk factors.

The evidence regarding the relationship between different types of beverages and cardiovascular health in individuals with type 2 diabetes (T2D) is scarce. We analyzed the associations of individual beverage intake with risks of CVD and ischemic heart disease (IHD) in 7315 participants with T2D.

GIFT (gene-based integrative fine-mapping through conditional TWAS) narrows down the set size of putatively causal genes by 32.16-91.32%. The genes identified by GIFT highlight the importance of vessel regulation in determining blood pressures and lipid metabolism for regulating lipid levels.

 Accelerated brain aging (ABA) intricately links with age-associated neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric diseases. This investigation leveraged data from the UK Biobank for a comprehensive analysis. Subpopulations of accelerated brain aging and resilient brain aging were delineated based on the error between actual age and predicted brain age.

The number of identified potential drug targets is often prohibitively large to experimentally evaluate in wet lab experiments. In this review, we discuss principles of genetically guided drug development. We present a range of biomedical resources which can be used to annotate and prioritise disease-associated proteins identified by these studies.

Prior observational studies suggest an association between intra-pancreatic fat deposition (IPFD) and pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) However, the causal relationship is unclear. In the observational study, we use UK Biobank data (N = 29,463, median follow-up: 4.5 years) and find that high IPFD (>10%) is associated with PDAC risk.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have achieved remarkable success in associating thousands of genetic variants with complex traits. The presence of linkage disequilibrium (LD) makes it challenging to identify the causal variants. Many fine-mapping methods have been proposed to assign well-calibrated probabilities of causality.

A leading theory argues that vascular risk may drive adverse cardiac remodelling. This leads to chronic cerebral hypoperfusion and subsequent brain structural damage. This study tests that prediction in a large sample of the UK Biobank (N = 11,962)

Study was to test associations between documented, prevalent genetic variation (single nucleotide polymorphism, SNP) in DNA repair genes, cognitive function, and brain structure. SNPs in base excision repair (BER) genes of the bifunctional DNA glycosylases were considered. Statistically significant associations with cognition were detected for 12 out of the 13 SNPs analyzed.

Vascular brain injury (VBI) may be an under-recognised contributor to mobility impairment. We examined associations between MRI VBI biomarkers and impaired mobility. In ARIC, imbalance was associated with four of five VBI measures.

The human retina is a multilayered tissue that offers a unique window into systemic health. We conducted genotypic and phenotypic analyses of retinal layer thicknesses using macular OCT images from 44,823 UK Biobank participants. We identified multiple inherited genetic loci and acquired systemic cardio-metabolic-pulmonary conditions associated with thinner retinal layers.

Study aimed to identify the most predictive factors for the development of type 2 diabetes. HbA1c emerged as the foremost predictor, followed by BMI, waist circumference, blood glucose, family history of diabetes, gamma-glutamyl transferase, waist-hip ratio, HDL cholesterol.

A total of 422,531 participants from the UK biobank were included in this study. Longitudinal associations of grip strength and walking pace with the risk of incident PD were investigated.

Sarcopenic obesity (SO) is an age-related disease characterized by excessive adiposity and low muscle mass or function. Although obesity and sarcopenia are heritable conditions, the genetic determinants of SO have not been fully understood. We conducted a large-scale exome-wide association analysis of SO.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is known as one of the important risk factors for the severity and mortality of COVID-19. Here, we evaluate the impact of T2D and its genetic susceptibility on the severity of the disease. We also observed that the mortality rate for SARS-CoV-2-infected patients was approximately 2 to 7 times higher.

Artificial intelligence (AI), especially GPT-4, offers new opportunities. Traditional risk prediction methods such as the Framingham and American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) have been widely used in the practice.

The protective role of estrogen in the development of dementia remains uncertain. We investigated the role of lifetime cumulative exposure to estrogen in dementia in the UK Biobank. Reproductive characteristics, including estrogen length and history of surgery, were used as exposure variables.

Predicting post-operative complications and revision surgery is critical for surgical planning and patient counseling. Due to the relatively small number of cases of ASD surgery, machine learning applications have been limited. We present the novel application of advanced models (CNN, LLM, GWAS) using complex data types (radiographs, clinical notes, genomics) for ASD outcome prediction.

The All of Us Research Program seeks to enroll 1 million diverse participants who share multiple sources of data. It is important to understand the phenomic profiles of its participants to conduct research in this cohort. The estimates of prevalence of diseases in the US general population were obtained from the Global Burden of Diseases study.

A genetic contribution to refractive error has been confirmed by the discovery of more than 150 associated variants. Environmental factors such as education and time outdoors also demonstrate strong associations. Currently however, the extent of gene-environment or gene-gene interactions in myopia is unknown.

A sub-sample of 91,648 UK Biobank participants reported moderate-to-vigorous PA (MVPA), lifestyle activities, TV viewing, computer use and sleep. Sleeping either more or less than 7 h/day at baseline was associated with lower PA at follow-up. An exception was 'walking/standing at work' in women.

The human genetic basis of tuberculosis (TB) has long remained elusive. We report a study of this variant in the UK Biobank cohort. The frequency of P1104A homozygotes was much higher in patients with TB (6/620, 1%) than in controls (228/114,473, 0.2%)

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. It has a strong heritable basis. We report a genome-wide association analysis of 34,627 CRC cases and 71,379 controls of European ancestry that identifies SNPs at 31 new CRC risk loci.

CADM2 has been associated with a range of behavioural and metabolic traits. We assessed genetic variants in the CADM2 locus for association with phenotypes in the UK Biobank, IMPROVE, PROCARDIS and SCARFSHEEP studies. A wide range of metabolic phenotypes were meta-analysed.

Streptococcus pneumoniae is a common nasopharyngeal colonizer. It can cause life-threatening invasive diseases such as empyema, bacteremia and meningitis. Genetic variation of host and pathogen is known to play a role in invasive pneumococcal disease.

The genomics era has brought useful tools to dissect the genetic architecture of complex traits. Here we propose a multivariate reaction norm model (MRNM) to tackle genotype-covariate (G-C) correlation and interaction problems. We apply MRNM to the UK Biobank data in analysis of body mass index.

Neuroticism is a stable personality trait associated with self-harm and suicidal ideation. It is correlated with coping styles, but its value as an independent predictor of these outcomes is disputed.

Growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF-15) may explain the potential cardioprotective and anti-cancer properties of metformin. We conducted a Mendelian randomisation study to examine the role of GDF- 15 in risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) and breast and colorectal cancer.

Statin use was associated with 39% lower risk of liver cancer in the PCCIU (adjusted OR 0.61, 95% CI 0.43-0.87) We found a consistent inverse relationship between statin use and risk of primary liver cancer which was only seen for HCC but not IBDC.

Diffusion weighted magnetic resonance imaging data enables a range of promising imaging phenotypes probing structural connections. The reliability and biological sensitivity and specificity of diffusion data depend on processing pipeline. A state-of-the-art framework for data processing facilitates cross-study harmonisation.

Study aimed to identify an efficient polygenic predictor for BC based on best available evidence. Four different genetic risk scores were compared in two population-based biobank cohorts. metaGRS2 combined on the effects of more than 900 SNPs provided best predictive ability for breast cancer.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) are designed to serve as single summary measures that are easy to construct. They have been used for stratification and prediction of disease risk. This study was conducted using data from 30,702 unrelated, genotyped patients of recent European descent.

Anorexia nervosa is a complex and serious illness affecting 0.9-4% of women and 0.3% of men. Mortality rates are higher than those in other psychiatric disorders and outcomes are unacceptably poor. Here we combine data from the Anorexia Nervosa Genetics Initiative (ANGI)8,9 and the Eating Disorders Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium (PGC-ED) and conduct a genome-wide association study of 16,992 cases and 55,525 controls. We identified eight significant loci.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified thousands of variants associated with complex traits. Most of these variants overlap with expression QTLs, indicating their potential involvement in regulation of gene expression. Using independent association summary statistics, we find that the majority of these loci were missed by GWAS due to power issues.

Knee pain is one of the most common musculoskeletal complaints that brings people to medical attention. Approximately 50% of individuals over the age of 50 report an experience of knee pain within the past 12 months. We identified two loci in or near GDF5 and COL27A1 that are associated with knee pain.

Inferring the full genealogical history of a set of DNA sequences is a core problem in evolutionary biology. However, current methods are limited, and the most accurate techniques are able to process no more than a hundred samples.

A total of 5596 participants of the UK Biobank were included for whom cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging and genetic data were available. Major exclusion criteria included nonwhite ethnicity, major cardiovascular disease, and body mass index >30 or  2 . A genetic risk score to estimate genetically predicted SBP (gSBP) was constructed based on 107 previously established genetic variants.

Transposable elements (TE) comprise roughly half of the human genome. They have been widely hypothesized to contribute to the evolution of gene regulation. The contribution of TE to the genetic architecture of diseases remains unknown.

Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is caused by gastric acid entering the esophagus. We conduct a large GERD GWAS meta-analysis (80,265 cases, 305,011 controls) identifying 25 independent genome-wide significant loci for GERD. Several of the implicated genes are existing or putative drug targets.

 Understanding genetic architecture of plasma lipidome could provide better insights into lipid metabolism and its link to cardiovascular diseases. Here, we perform genome-wide association analyses of 141 lipid species and 25 CVD related phenotypes.

We aimed to investigate associations between common infections and neuroimaging markers of dementia risk. Interactions between serology measures and apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype were tested. Findings were meta-analyzed across cohorts. Seropositivity to John Cunningham virus associated with smaller brain volumes in basic models.

UK Biobank cohort included 109,301 adults with obesity free of baseline CVD. MHO was associated with a 42% reduced risk of CVD compared with MUO. A significant interaction effect between PA and metabolic status on CVD risk was found.

Liver disease is linked to series of extrahepatic multisystem manifestations. Little is known about the associations between liver and eye diseases, especially cataract, the global leading cause of blindness. We aimed to investigate whether severe liver diseases were associated with an increased risk of the cataracts.

Sleep duration, chronotype/morningness, napping, sleeplessness/insomnia, and getting up from bed were examined. Study found decreased risk of terminated healthspan for healthy sleep behaviors such as 'sleep duration 7-8h/d'

The modifying effect of prediabetic status on the association of social isolation and loneliness with the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) remains uncertain. We aimed to explore whether predi diabetic status modifies the association with incident T2DM.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) predict individuals' genetic risk of developing complex diseases. To date, large GWASs exist primarily for the European population. The quality of PRS prediction declines when applied to other ethnicities.

Previous observational studies established a positive relationship between snoring and stroke. We aimed to investigate the causal effect of snoring on stroke. Based on 82,339 unrelated individuals with genotyping data of Asian descent from the China Kadoorie Biobank.

Gastrointestinal (GI) cancers account for a significant incidence and mortality rates of cancers globally. We aimed to investigate the association between the phenomic features and GI cancers in a large cohort study. We included 502,369 subjects aged 37-73 years in the UK Biobank recruited since 2006.

NHS Health Check is a preventive programme in the UK designed to screen for cardiovascular risk and to aid in primary disease prevention. Despite its widespread implementation, the effectiveness of the NHS Health Check for longer-term disease prevention is unclear. In this study, we measured the rate of new diagnoses in UK Biobank participants who underwent the NHS health check compared with those who did not.

Depression has been linked to an increased risk of cardiovascular and respiratory diseases. However, its impact on cardiac and lung function remains unclear, especially when accounting for potential gene-environment interactions. We developed a novel polygenic and gene- Environment interaction risk score (PGIRS) for non-depressed individuals.

Study included 274,160 participants from the UK Biobank. Of the 249 metabolites examined, 143 were significantly associated with incident ACD, 130 with AD, and 140 with VaD. Lipoprotein lipid concentrations, linoleic acid, sphingomyelin, glucose, and branched-chain amino acids ranked top in importance.

The relationship between feelings of tense, as a significant emotional distress, and dementia remains unclear. This study aimed to evaluate the association between feeling of tense and dementia. During a median follow-up of 12.7 years among 482,360 participants, 7331 dementia cases were identified.

Cow's milk is frequently included in the human diet, but the relationship between milk intake and type 2 diabetes (T2D) remains controversial. Using data from the Hispanic Community Health Study/Study of Latinos, we show that in both sexes, higher milk intake is associated with lower risk of T2D.

Plasma proteins are promising biomarkers and potential drug targets in lung cancer. We performed proteome-wide Mendelian randomization meta-analysis (PW-MR- meta) based on lung cancer genome-wide association studies. 270 plasma proteins were identified using PW-MR meta- analysis, including 39 robust causal proteins.

Tinnitus is a heritable, highly prevalent auditory disorder treated by multiple medical specialties. Previous GWAS indicated high genetic correlations between tinnitus and hearing loss. We present a GWAS meta-analysis, triple previous sample sizes, and expand to non-European ancestries.

Angiopoietin-like protein-3 (ANGPTL3) could reduce lipoprotein-lipid levels and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk. Mendelian randomisation was used to determine whether genetic variations could causally influence triglyceride and apolipoprotein B (apoB) levels as well as coronary artery disease.

The association between Metabolic Syndrome (MetS), its components, and the risk of osteoarthritis (OA) has been a topic of conflicting evidence in different studies. The aim of this present study is to investigate the link between MetS and OA using data from the UK Biobank.

Study included UK Biobank participants who responded to questions concerning five components of life satisfaction at baseline. Overall life satisfaction was inversely associated with all-cause mortality. Health satisfaction showed the strongest association with mortality.

Air pollutants are important contributors to cardiovascular diseases, but associations between long-term exposure to air pollutants and the risk of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) are still unknown. This study investigated the combined effects and interactions between air pollutants exposure and genetic predisposition.

Previous studies have shown that excessive alcohol consumption is associated with poor sleep. This study included 383,357 UKB participants (mean [SD] age, 57.0 [8.0] years; 46% male) who consumed a mean (SD) of 9.0 (10.0) standard drinks per week. Light-moderate-heavy alcohol consumption was linearly linked to snoring and the evening chronotype but nonlinearly associated with insomnia, sleep duration, and napping.

This work aims to investigate how smoking exerts effect on the development of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) A prospective cohort study and a Mendelian randomization study are first conducted to evaluate the association between smoking behaviors, smoking-related DNA methylation and the risks of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Compared to never smoking, current and previous smoking habits are associated with increased CD and UC.

The current atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk prediction models used in clinical practice performed better in the non-inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) cohort compared with IBD. This suggests the need for a more specific risk prediction model tailored to the IBD population.

Study investigated the potential causal association of lipoprotein (a) levels with pulse wave velocity (PWV) Genetic variants associated with Lp(a) were retrieved from the UK Biobank GWAS (N = 290,497)

Obesity and diabetes are associated inversely with low-grade prostate cancer risk. Free testosterone was associated most strongly positively in normal weight men and men with diabetes. The inverse association with obesity was stronger for high-FT.

Previous falls are a well-documented risk factor for subsequent fracture. The relationship between self-reported falls and fracture risk was estimated in an international meta-analysis of individual-level data from 46 prospective cohorts. Previous falls should be considered as an additional risk factor in future iterations of FRAX to improve fracture risk prediction.

Prioritizing disease-critical cell types by integrating genome-wide association studies (GWAS) with functional data is a fundamental goal. Single-cell chromatin accessibility (scATAC) and gene expression (scRNA-seq) have characterized cell types at high resolution. Studies integrating GWAS with scATAC-seq have shown promise.

Lifestyle factors after a cancer diagnosis could influence the survival of cancer survivors. A healthy lifestyle score (HLS) was defined based on five common lifestyle factors that related to cancer survival. Never smoking, light alcohol consumption, adequate physical activity and optimal BMI were significantly associated with a lower risk of all-cause mortality.

The Black Death pandemic (1346-1353) devastated European populations. What has remained less understood is the effect of the pandemic on human mobility and genetic diversity at the local scale. We report 275 ancient genomes from later medieval and postmedieval Cambridgeshire of individuals buried before and after the Black Death.

We investigated phenotypic leucocyte telomere length (LTL), genetically predicted LTL (gTL), and lung cancer risk among 371 890 participants, including 2829 incident cases, from the UK Biobank. Mendelian Randomization analyses supported causal associations between longer telomeres and lung cancers. The associations were prominent among never smokers.

Clonal haematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) and atrial fibrillation (AF) are age-related conditions. This study investigated the potential role of CHIP in the development and progression of AF.

 Epidemiological studies have shown a positive relationship between birthweight and breast cancer. We re-explored the association between them in the UK Biobank cohort. Age of menarche and age at menopause as two potential mediators.

Little is known about the effects of night shifts and their interactions with genetic factors on chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) In this study, we aim to investigate relationships between long-term night shift work exposure and COPD risk.

The Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet score lowers blood pressure (BP) We examined interactions between genotype and the DASH diet score in relation to systolic BP. The highest narrow sense heritability accounted by single nucleotide polymorphisms potentially interacting with the Dash diet score was for gene ST20 at 15q25.1.

Premorbid constipation is associated with a 2.28-fold higher risk of depression. Participants with constipation were more likely to report depressive symptoms than people without. Gastroenterologists and primary care physicians should pay more attention to the depressive symptoms of constipation patients.

Uric acid-lowering agents such as xanthine oxidase inhibitors have potential cardioprotective effects. Studies on their use in preventing cardiovascular diseases are lacking. We investigated the genetically proxied effects of reducing uric acid on ischemic cardiovascular diseases in a lipid-level-stratified population.

The UK Biobank identified genetic loci that influence humoral immune response to multiple infections. An insertion-deletion variant thought to affect NFKB1 expression was mapped as the likely causal variant. The deletion allele was associated with an increased risk of infection from diverse pathogens but had a protective effect against allergic disease.

UK Biobank has made general practitioner (GP) data (censoring date 2016-2017) available for approximately 45% of the cohort. Hospital inpatient and death registry (referred to as "HES/Death") data are available cohort-wide through 2018-2022 depending on whether the data comes from England, Wales or Scotland.

Women with diabetes are at higher risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) than men with diabetes. However, the sex difference in the association between the degree of risk factor control and the risk of CVD in patients with diabetes is unclear.

Steatotic liver disease (SLD) prevails as the most common chronic liver disease yet lack approved treatments due to incomplete understanding of pathogenesis. Recently, elevated hepatic and circulating interleukin 32 (IL-32) levels were found in individuals with severe SLD. We demonstrate in vitro that incubation with IL-32&#946; protein leads to an increase in intracellular triglyceride synthesis.

Previous studies have shown that respiratory diseases are associated with an increased risk of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) However, whether there is a correlation between chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) and RA is not known. This is the first study to reveal an association between CRS and RA.

Oily fish intake and FOS use were reported by 38 % and 31 % of participants, respectively. Increasing oily fish intake was associated with a higher likelihood of Fos use ( P   n -3 PUFA (OR 6.7 (95 % CI 6.3, 7.1)

Long-term exposure to air pollution has been found to contribute to the development of cognitive decline. We aimed to assess the association between various air pollutants and cognitive impairment and dementia. We also explore the modification effects of lifestyle and genetic predisposition.

Previously observational studies did not draw a clear conclusion on the association between fatty liver diseases and bone mineral density (BMD) Our large-scale studies revealed that MAFLD and hepatic steatosis had no causal effect on BMD, while some metabolic factors were correlated with BMD. The findings have important implications for understanding the relationship between. fatty liver disease and BMD and may help direct the clinical management of.MAFLD patients with osteoporosis.

A total of 369,065 individuals were included in the present study based on the UK Biobank. During a median follow-up period of 12.04 years, a total of 4901 incident RA cases were documented. MetS (hazard ratio [HR] 1.22, 95% CI 1.14-1.30) and 4 of its 5 components (elevated waist circumference [WC] and elevated triglyceride [ TG] level) were associated with an increased risk of RA.

Clonal hematopoiesis (CH) can be caused by single gene mutations or mosaic chromosomal alterations. CH is associated with a significantly increased risk of hematologic malignancies. Improved prognostication of transformation risk is urgently needed for routine clinical practice.

Cross-sectional analysis was performed in 618 consecutive ADPKD patients assessed and followed-up for over a decade. A total of 123 patients (19.9%) had reached kidney failure by the study date. A PKD1-T genotype had the strongest influence on the probability of reduced baseline kidney function.

Maternal circulating cortisol levels in pregnancy are associated with lower offspring birth weight. However, it is possible that the associations are due to residual confounding. We performed two-sample Mendelian Randomisation using a single genetic variant. We also tested the genetic variant's effect on pregnancy cortisol.

Green space, blue space, and the natural environment (GBN) are associated with lower risk of psychiatric disorders in middle-aged and older adults. The elderly, men, and those living with some comorbid conditions may derive greater benefits associated with exposure to GBN.

Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are both chronic, progressive disorders. We conducted a prospective cohort study using the Cox proportional hazards model. The results show that IBD had no effect on the risk of PD.

White matter hyperintensities (WMH) increase the risk of stroke and cognitive impairment. This study aims to determine the cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between adiposity and WMH.

Migraine is one of the most common diseases that significantly impairs the quality of life. This condition has a pronounced genetic component. Genes responsible for the development of monogenic forms of hemiplegic migraine have already been identified. The search for genetic associations with common migraine and its subtypes continues.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has rapidly become the most common liver disease worldwide. Modern lifestyles have been linked to this rise in prevalence. We investigated how shift working patterns and chronotype were associated with hepatic fat fraction and NAFLD in 282,303 UK Biobank participants.

Lin and Sullivan propose a method to provide an optimal test statistic adjusted for the correlation. PASTRY outperformed the standard method on both simulated and real datasets in terms of the power symmetry.

Femoral neck width (FNW) derived from DXA scans may provide a useful adjunct to hip fracture prediction. Genome-wide association study (GWAS) identified 71 independent FNW SNPs. FNW and FN-BMD SNPs were used to generate genetic instruments for multivariable Mendelian randomization. Greater genetically determined FNW increased risk of all hip fractures.

In neuroimaging, predicted brain age is widely used to analyze different diseases. Age is an important variable to describe the expected brain's anatomy status across the normal aging trajectory. The deviation from that normative aging trajectory may provide some insights into neurological diseases.

Despite advances in defining somatic mutations that cause myeloid malignancies, a significant heritable component for these cancers remains largely unexplained. We identify inherited predisposition genes for these blood cancers. CTR9, which encodes a key component of the PAF1 transcription elongation complex, is among the significant genes identified.

Remnant cholesterol (RC) has been associated with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, but its relationship with hypertension remains unclear. This prospective cohort study aimed to investigate the association between RC and subsequent hypertension risk. Data from the UK Biobank, comprising 295,062 participants initially free of hypertension, were analyzed.

Echocardiographic studies indicate South Asian people have smaller ventricular volumes, lower mass and more concentric remodelling than White European people. But there are no data using cardiac MRI (CMR) to compare cardiac structure and function in the two groups.

Poor glycemic control with elevated levels of hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) is associated with increased risk of cognitive impairment. We found that for every 6.75 mmol/mol increase in HbA 1c, there was an increase of 0.49 (95% CI = 0.24, 0.74;  p -value = 1.30 × 10 -4 ) years in adjusted BAG. Subgroup analyses by sex and age revealed significant causal effects of Hb a1c onadjusted BAG among men aged 60-73.

A comprehensive overview of the associations between air pollution and the risk of gastrointestinal (GI) diseases has been lacking. We aimed to examine the relationships of long-term exposure to ambient particulate matter (PM) with aerodynamic diameter &#8804;2.5 &#956;m (PM 2.5) and nitrogen dioxide (NO 2 ) and nitrogen oxides (NO x) A total of 465,703 participants free of GI diseases in the UK Biobank were included at baseline.

We present a novel methodology to explore disease subtypes using our open-sourced BiomedSciAI toolkit. Of a 12,073-patient cohort, a subgroup of 440 IBD patients was discovered with an increased risk of a subsequent GI surgery.

 encryption properties of encG-reg are based on the random matrix theory by masking the original genotypic matrix without sacrificing precision of individual-level genotype data. We observed that the relatives estimated using enc G-reg was equivalently accurate with the estimation by KING, which is a widely used software.

A total of 6860 patients with type 2 diabetes were included in this study. Chronotype, sleep duration, insomnia, daytime sleepiness, and snoring were collected as a questionnaire. Restricted cubic splines were used to validate linear associations between sleep scores CVD events.

COVID-19 patients are at a higher risk of developing digestive diseases. The risks of GERD were increased stepwise with the severity of the acute phase of the infection. Even after 1-year follow-up, GERD and GI dysfunction continued to pose risks to patients.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neuro-inflammatory and neurodegenerative disease that is most prevalent in Northern Europe. It is known that inherited risk for MS is located within or in close proximity to immune-related genes, but it is unknown when, where and how this genetic risk originated. This study highlights the critical importance of the Neolithic period and Bronze Age as determinants of modern immune responses.

We applied colocalization between T2D and 20 related metabolic traits, across 243 loci, to obtain inferences of shared casual variants. Network-based unsupervised hierarchical clustering was performed on variant-trait associations. Partitioned polygenic risk scores (PRSs) were generated for each cluster.

Apolipoproteins (APOs) have emerged as significant players in lipid metabolism that affects the risk of chronic disease. The impact of circulating APO concentrations on premature death remains undetermined. This study aimed to investigate associations of serum APOs with all-cause, cardiovascular disease (CVD)-related, and cancer-related mortality.

Diabetes (regardless of type) and obesity are associated with a range of musculoskeletal disorders. The causal mechanisms driving these associations are unknown for many upper limb pathologies. We used genetic techniques to test the causal link between glycemia, obesity and musculated conditions. We found evidence that long-term high glycaemia has a causal role in the aetiology of upper limb conditions.

The association between vitamin D and dementia risk in those with prediabetes remains uncertain. We aimed to evaluate the association of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) with incident dementia among older adults withprediabetes.

Insulin resistance is a well-established risk factor for metabolic disease. The ratio of triglycerides to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (TG:HDL-C) is a surrogate marker of IR. We conducted a genome-wide association study of the TG:HDl-C ratio.

The Holocene (beginning around 12,000 years ago) encompassed some of the most significant changes in human evolution. We modelled the selection landscape during the transition from hunting and gathering, to farming and pastoralism across West Eurasia. We identify key selection signals related to metabolism, including that selection at the FADS cluster began earlier than previously reported.

The varicella-zoster virus (VZV) infects over 95% of the population. VZV reactivation causes herpes zoster (HZ), known as shingles. We analyzed the immune signature and risk profile in HZ patients.

A total of 189,003 UK Biobank participants with at least one 24-h dietary assessment were included. All food items were categorised into three groups, including healthy plant foods, less healthy plant food, and animal foods. The Townsend deprivation index was used as the indicator of socioeconomic deprivation level. Cox proportional hazard models were used to estimate the hazard ratios of PDIs for all-cause and cause-specific mortality.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has emerged as the most prevalent chronic liver disease worldwide. Hepatic steatosis detection has remained largely based on surrogate serum biomarkers, elastography or biopsy. We used a total of 2959 participants from the UK biobank cohort and established the association of dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA)-derived body composition parameters.

Morphometric image analysis enables the quantification of differences in the shape and size of organs between individuals. We have applied morphometric methods to the study of the liver by constructing surface meshes from abdominal MRI images in 33,434 participants in the UK Biobank. The presence of type-2 diabetes accelerates age-related changes in the liver.

Physical activity (PA) is associated with mortality and cardiovascular disease (CVD) However, the effect of circadian PA trajectories remains ambiguous. This study aimed to explore ideal circadian PA patterns to reduce mortality and CVD, and potential mediators. 502,400 participants from UK Biobank were recruited between 2006 and 2010.

Study aimed to examine rheumatoid arthritis (RA) risk associated with hormonal and reproductive factors in women from the large cohort of the UK Biobank. Age at menarche >14 years was associated with a greater RA risk.

We assessed a total of 27,590 PD cases, 6701 PD proxies, and 3,106,080 controls from three data sets: 23andMe, Inc., UK Biobank, and AMP-PD. Based on well-known PD genes, 834 variants of interest were selected from the ClinVar annotated 23 andMe dataset. We performed a meta-analysis using summary statistics of all three studies.

We developed and validated a convolutional neural network (CNN)-based biological brain age prediction model. We used a multicohort dataset of cognitively healthy individuals (age range = 32.0-95.7 years) comprising 17,296 MRIs for training and evaluation. Salience maps of predictions reveal that periventricular, temporal, and insular regions are the most important for age prediction.

Psychiatric disorders are complex, heritable and highly polygenic. Current theoretical and empirical accounts have conceptualized them as disorders of brain connectivity. However, the extent to which these findings reflect common genetic factors remains unclear. Here we performed a multivariate genome-wide association analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging-based functional brain connectivity in a sample of 30,701 individuals.

Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) interacts with psychopathology in a complex way. Little is known about the underlying brain, biochemical, and genetic mechanisms. Study included 171,104 participants from the UK Biobank who underwent a thorough assessment.

Gene-SGAN is a multi-view, weakly-supervised deep clustering method. It dissects disease heterogeneity by jointly considering phenotypic and genetic data. It conferring genetic correlations to the disease subtypes and associated endophenotypic signatures. The method is broadly applicable to disease subtyping and endophenotype discovery.

Little is known about the role that combined sleep behaviors play in the association with chronic liver disease (CLD) risk. We included 408,560 participants initially free of CLD from the UK Biobank. A healthy sleep pattern was defined by early chronotype, sleep duration of 7-8 h/day, no insomnia, no snoring, and no excessive daytime sleepiness.

Study looked at associations of ideal cardiovascular health metrics (ICVHMs) with all-cause mortality among former and current smokers. Compared with never smokers, among former smokers, the multivariable-adjusted hazard ratio (HR) for all- Cause mortality was 1.82 (95%CI 1.71-1.92) for participants who had &#8804;2 ICVHm. Among current smokers,. the HRs for mortality were 2.74 (2.60-2.89) and 2.18 (1.78- 2.67)

Brain iron deposition is common in dementia, but whether serum iron is a causal risk factor is unknown. We aimed to determine whether genetic predisposition to higher serum iron status biomarkers increased risk of dementia and atrophy of grey matter. We analysed UK Biobank participants clustered into European, African and South Asian groups.

Antipsychotics (APs) are among the most widely prescribed medications. Previous studies on their effects on dementia risk are controversial and scarce. We aimed to examine the relationships of APs exposure with the risk of dementia.

Copy-number variations (CNVs) have been associated with rare and debilitating genomic disorders. We found that CNVs increased disease risk and caused earlier onset. 16% of these associations are indirect, acting by increasing body mass index (BMI) Signals mapped to 45 unique, non-overlapping regions, nine of which were linked to known GDs.

This contribution describes a linkage framework to assign individual-level environmental exposures to population-based cohorts using high-resolution spatio-temporal exposure maps. Framework can be used to address current limitations of exposure assessment for the analysis of health risks associated with environmental stressors.

Study aims to examine the associations of lifestyle transition with the risk of dementia and hippocampal volume. During a median follow-up period of 8.6 years, 120 (0.7 %) dementia events were documented. Among participants with healthy baseline lifestyles, the improvement group had a lower risk of incident dementia. Similar results were observed among participants with intermediate baseline lifestyles regarding dementia risk.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) genes and brain volumes begin among middle-aged and older adults. We tested whether genetic risk score for AD (AD-GRS) had age-dependent associations with 38 regional brain magnetic resonance imaging volumes. Trends began by age 45 for the nucleus accumbens and thalamus.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) has been linked with site-specific upper gastrointestinal (UGI) cancers during the past decades. Study aimed to determine the association between T2D, glycaemic traits (random blood glucose and HbA1c) and UGI cancer.

Study included 14,543 individuals with T2D from the UK Biobank. A linear inverse association between the weighted lifestyle score and PAD was observed. A favorable lifestyle was associated with lower risk of PAD.

Ischemic heart disease (IHD) has a unique manifestation on electrocardiographic (ECG) However, the genetic relationships between IHD and ECG remain unclear. We took 12-lead ECG as phenotypes to conduct genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for 41,960 samples from UK-Biobank.

Polygenic scores (PGSs) provide an individual level estimate of genetic risk for any given disease. Most PGSs have been derived from genome wide association studies (GWASs) conducted in populations of White European ancestry. This is especially relevant for cardiometabolic diseases which disproportionately affect people of non-European ancestry.

We sought to explore the short- and long-term effects of chronic viral infection on cardiovascular disease (CVD) Based on UK Biobank data, exposed group was identified as individuals who had chronic virus infection-related hospitalization (IRH) Unexposed group was randomly selected, matched by 5-year age interval, sex, and Charlson comorbidity index. Chronic viral IRH was associated with increased risk of CVD.

Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is one of the most common malignancies worldwide. Yet its genetic determinants are incompletely defined. We identify 122 BCC-associated loci, of which 36 were novel. We also identify an association of the well-known pigment gene SLC45A2.

Study of eight sleep-related traits among 450,000 participants from UK Biobank. 22 new genes associated with chronotype, daytime sleepiness, daytime napping, snoring and sleep apnoea. 20 of these genes were confirmed to be significantly associated with sleep disorders.

Zinc supplementation may help reduce the risk of all-cause dementia and Alzheimer's disease in middle-aged or older adults, especially among those with cataracts. No significant associations with incident dementia were observed for other antioxidant supplementation.

UK Biobank participants were included (median age = 57 years; 54.7% women) Data were collected 2006-2010, with follow-up collected in 2021. Usual walking pace was self-defined as slow, steady, average, or brisk.

Paracetamol may increase the risk of liver cancer, but epidemiological evidence remains unclear. This prospective study included 464,244 participants free of cancer diagnosis from the UK Biobank. The number needed to harm (NNH) was calculated at 10 years of follow-up.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) has proved useful in predicting the risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) based on the genotypes of an individual. The usefulness of PRS to predict CVD risk among type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients remains unclear. We built a meta-PRS CVD based on candidate PRSs developed from state-of-the-art PRS methods.

Human humoral immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 vaccines exhibit substantial inter-individual variability. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on the anti-spike IgG serostatus of UK Biobank participants. The HLA-DRB1 &#8727; 13:02 allele (MAF = 4.0%, OR = 0.75, p = 2.34e-16) demonstrated the most statistically significant protective effect against IgG Seronegativity.

High hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) is associated with increases in the risk of cardiovascular disease among individuals with elevated genetic susceptibility. We aimed to investigate the association between HbA 1c and atrial fibrillation (AF), coronary artery disease (CAD), and ischemic stroke.

Cardiac arrhythmia, a common cardiovascular disease, is closely related to genetic polymorphisms. However, associations between polymorphisms in KCNH2 and various arrhythmias remain inadequately explored. We explored the associations between 85 KC NH2 genetic variations and 16 cardiac arrh rhythmias in a UK Biobank.

Study looked at the relationship between fructose consumption and serum sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), (free) testosterone, and risk of hyperandrogenism in a population-based cohort. fructose intake from SSB (&#8805;10 g/day) was associated with lower SHBG in men and women and with higher free testosterone levels. Carriers of the rs2304681 A allele were characterized by higher circulating SHBG and lower serum free testosterone (women)

Dupuytren's disease (DD) is a highly heritable fibrotic disorder of the hand with incompletely understood etiology. A number of genetic loci, including Wnt signaling members, have been previously identified. We identified 85 genome-wide significant single nucleotide polymorphisms in 56 loci of which 11 were novel.

Human same-sex sexual behavior (SSB) is heritable and leads to fewer offspring. How SSB-associated alleles have persisted and whether they will remain in human populations are of interest. Using the UK Biobank, we address these questions separately for bisexual behavior (BSB) and exclusive SSB. We discover that male BSB is genetically positively correlated with the number of offspring.

Study included 66,068 and 226 participants with prediabetes from the UK Biobank (UKB) and Chinese Ocular Imaging Project (COIP) in Guangzhou, China. Frailty was evaluated using the Fried phenotype, which includes weight loss, fatigue, low grip strength, low physical activity, and slow walking pace. Pre-frailty and frailty were significantly associated with a higher risk of microvascular diseases.

Smoking may influence measured IOP through an effect on corneal biomechanics. But it is unclear whether this factor translates into an increased risk for glaucoma. This study aimed to examine the association of cigarette smoking with cornea biomechanical properties and glau coma-related traits.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have successfully revealed many disease-associated genetic variants. For a case-control study, adequate power of an association test can be achieved with a large sample size. To account for the batch effect, we propose an approach by integrating External Controls into the Association Test by Regression Calibration (iECAT-RC)

Lung function is associated with cardiovascular mortality, but the relationships with atherosclerosis are unclear. The population-based Swedish CArdioPulmonary BioImage study measured lung function, emphysema, coronary CT angiography, coronary calcium, carotid plaques and ankle-brachial index in 29,593 men and women aged 50-64 years. Lower lung function was not associated with coronary Atherosclerosis in 14,524 never-smokers.

Neurological demyelination and brain damage accumulated in white matter appear as hyperintense areas on T2-weighted MRI scans. Modeling binary images at the population level plays an important role in understanding aging and inflammatory diseases. We propose a scalable hierarchical Bayesian spatial model.

Study included 374,125 participants free of gastrointestinal disorders at baseline. Of them, 19,719 (5.27%) with T2D were followed-up by linking to multiple medical records to record gastrointestinal disease diagnoses. Compared with nondiabetes, participants with T1D had an increased risk of gastritis, duodenitis, peptic ulcer and diverticular disease.

Study included 329,359 participants from the UK Biobank. During a median follow-up of 13.57 years, 2,238 participants developed PD. In summer, time spent outdoors was associated with a reduced PD risk compared with &#8804; 2.0 h/day (HR = 0.84, 95% CI, 0.74-0.95)

Study included individuals without cancer or cardiovascular disease (CVD) at baseline from the UK Biobank. 93 357 (23.40%) had obesity, and 305 615 (76.60%) did not. During a median (IQR) follow-up of 12.73 (12.01-13.43) years, a total of 22 872 incident deaths were recorded. Compared with participants with obesity with an index of 2 or greater for social isolation, the multivariable adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) for all-cause mortality were 0.85 (95% CI, 0.79-0.91)

PRS methods combine the estimated effects of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to predict genetic risks for common diseases. Some methods require external individual-level GWAS dataset for parameter tuning. PRStuning predicts the PRS performance with different parameters, and then selects the best-performing parameters.

This study aimed to investigate the association between quantitative retinal vascular measurements and the risk of all-cause and premature mortality. We employed the Retina-based Microvascular Health Assessment System to assess fundus images for image quality. After adjusting for demographic, health, and lifestyle factors and genetic risk score, 18 and 10 retina vascular measurements were significantly associated with all- Cause and Premature mortality.

ApoB, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and triglycerides (TG) are associated with coronary artery disease (CAD) Trial evidence for the association of intensive LDL-C lowering and TG lowering with mortality is less definitive. This genetic association study used a population-based cohort of individuals of European ancestry from the UK Biobank.

Fine-mapping in genome-wide association studies attempts to identify causal SNPs from a set of candidate SNPs in a local genomic region of interest. Here, we present multi-ancestry sum of the single effects model (MESuSiE) to improve the accuracy and resolution of fine- mapping by leveraging association information across ancestries. In the real data, MESu SiE improves fine-Mapping resolution by 19.0% to 72.0%.

Little is known about the association between the overall sleep patterns and urologic cancers. We established a healthy sleep score according to five sleep traits. Compared with the participants with a poor sleep pattern (score of 0-2), the multivariable-adjusted hazard ratio and 95% confidence interval were 0.85 (0.75 to 0.96) for urologal cancers, and 0.91 (1.12) for RCC.

The age at onset (AAO) of Parkinson's disease (PD) is a major determinant of clinical heterogeneity. To investigate the risk factors with the AAO of PD, a total of 3156 patients with PD from the UK Biobank were included in this study. We evaluated the effects of polygenic risk scores (PRS), nongenetic risk factors, and their interaction.

Research using the UK Biobank demonstrates effects of body weight on the risk of several neurological and psychiatric disorders. The higher risks may be partially explained by brain structure, food intake and inflammation.

Drug repurposing (DR) intends to identify new uses for approved medications outside their original indication. Computational methods for finding DR candidates usually rely on prior biological and chemical information. We propose a simple and effective systematic screening approach to measure medication impact on hospitalization risk based on large-scale observational data.

Alcohol consumption is a risk factor for hyperuricaemia and gout. Multiple single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been identified as associated with both alcohol consumption and serum urate or gout in separate genome-wide association studies. This study aimed to identify and characterise interactions between these shared signals of genetic association and alcohol consumption.

Deep learning (DL) model used to predict an individual's elevated 10-year ASCVD risk score based on retinal images and limited demographic data. Study used 89,894 retinal fundus images from 44,176 UK Biobank participants (96% non-Hispanic White, 5% diabetic)

Dementia is a multifactorial syndrome attributable to a combination of vascular risk factors, lifestyle factors and neurodegeneration. Little is known about the relative contribution of all these factors and their combined effects on cognition among the older population. We examined the association of four domains of risk factors with cognition in older adults.

Study aimed to investigate the associations between dietary VC and VE with the incident risk of AAD. During a median follow-up of 12.5 years, 962 incident AAD events were documented. In subgroup analyses, the associations were more pronounced in participants who were over 60 years old, participants with smoking history, hypertension or hyperlipidemia.

Individual patterns of fat accumulation can determine cardiometabolic risk profile. To investigate risk stratification using personalized fat z-scores in persons with a body mass index of 30-40 kg/m 2 from the UK Biobank imaging study.

Cognitive reserve (CR) contributes to preserving cognition when facing brain aging and damage. CR has been linked to dementia risk in late life. However, the association between CR and cognitive changes and brain imaging measures, especially in midlife, is unclear.

Rare predicted loss-of-function (pLOF) variants were aggregated for 17,035 protein-coding genes using 55,558 distinct transcript-specific variant sets. These sets were tested for their association with 728 circulating proteins and 188 quantitative phenotypes across 406,921 individuals in the UK Biobank. The transcript- specific approach resulted in larger estimated effects of pLOF variants decreasing serum cis-protein levels.

Long-term exposure to PM 10 and PM 2.5 increases the risk of IBS, especially PM2.5 . We suggest restricting the ambient PM standards to reduce the impact of PM exposure on IBS. Individuals under 60 years old were more vulnerable to PM exposure.

Study included 363,494 participants with measured serum creatinine and cystatin C levels. A higher eGFR diff was associated with a lower risk of AF. These findings may have implications for the management of patients at risk of incident AF.

 periodontitis is a ubiquitous severe gum disease affecting the teeth and surrounding alveolar bone. We investigated the association between very severe periodonitis and early biomarkers of age-related macular degeneration in individuals with no eye disease. Among 36 897 participants included in the analysis, 1571 (4.3%) reported very severeperiodontitis.

There is increasing attention on the associations between body weight and several neurological and psychiatric disorders. We aimed to understand the effects of body mass index (BMI), BMI change and BMI-metabolic health status on the incidence of these disorders. Associations of body weight with six disorders were analysed.

17,031 participants from UK Biobank with type 2 diabetes who were free of depression were included. During a median follow-up of 12.3 years, we documented 2875 incident composite CVD cases. The presence of depressive symptoms had higher risks of composite CVB among individuals with type2 diabetes.

Precision medicine models often perform better for populations of European ancestry. As a result, prediction models may misrepresent or provide less accurate treatment recommendations for underrepresented populations. This study introduces an adaptable machine learning toolkit that integrates multiple existing methodologies.

Dietary patterns characterised by protein, polyunsaturated fatty acids, and vitamin D reduce the odds of malnutrition in cancer survivors. However, it is unclear whether these dietary patterns also improve prognosis. Study prospectively examined associations between dietary patterns and the risk of all-cause and cancer mortality in adult cancer survivors from the UK Biobank cohort.

The relationships of social isolation and loneliness with acute kidney injury (AKI) risk remained uncertain. 450,868 participants without prior AKI were included from the UK Biobank. Loneliness was assessed by asking about "Do you often feel lonely?". The study outcome was incident AKI.

Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) has been reported to be a risk factor for several physical and somatic symptoms. The genetics of PTSD and its potential association with medical outcomes remain unclear. This study examined disease categories and laboratory tests from electronic health records (EHRs) that are associated with PTSD polygenic scores.

Lipoprotein(a) is recognized as a causal factor for coronary heart disease (CHD) But its atherogenicity relative to that of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) on a per-particle basis is indeterminate. Authors addressed this issue in a genetic analysis based on the fact that Lp(a), LDL both contain 1 apolipoprotein B (apoB) per particle.

Coagulation factor XI (FXI) is a novel target for antithrombotic therapy addressed by various therapeutic modalities currently in clinical development. We analyzed the association of 2 common genetic variants, which alter levels of FXI, with a range of human phenotypes. We combined variants into a genetic score standardized to a 30% increase in relative activated partial thromboplastin time.

The risk of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) following trauma is heritable, but robust common variants have yet to be identified. In a multi-ethnic cohort including over 30,000 PTSD cases and 170,000 controls we conduct a genome-wide association study of PTSD. We demonstrate SNP-based heritability estimates of 5-20%, varying by sex.

M Mosaic loss of chromosome Y (mLOY) is frequently observed in the leukocytes of ageing men. The genetic architecture and biological mechanisms underlying mLOY are not fully understood. In a cohort of 95,380 Japanese men, we identify 50 independent genetic markers in 46 loci associated with mLOY at a genome-wide significant level.

We test 32.5 million variants for association with ten measures of the QRS complex in 12 leads, using 405,732 electrocardiograms from 81,192 Icelanders. We identify 190 associations at 130 loci, the majority of which have not been reported before. Assessment of genes expressed in the heart yields an additional 13 rare QRS coding variants.

Uterine leiomyomata (UL) are the most common neoplasms of the female reproductive tract. They are the primary cause for hysterectomy, leading to considerable morbidity and high economic burden.

The United Kingdom Biobank included 68 550 participants aged 40 to 69 years who underwent nonmydriatic retinal imaging, BP, and arterial stiffness index assessment. Greater arteriolar tortuosity was associated with higher systolic BP (relative increase, 1.2%; 95% CI, 0.9; 1.4% per 10 mmHg), higher mean arterial pressure, and higher pulse pressure. Associations were in the same direction but marginally weaker for venular Tortuosity and diameter.

SARS-CoV-2 infection may induce prolonged inflammation within the central nervous system. The mechanisms through which symptomatology emerges remain poorly understood. To address this gap, our study capitalized on longitudinal UK Biobank neuroimaging data.

Spinal stenosis is a common condition among older individuals, with significant morbidity attached. Little is known about its risk factors but degenerative conditions, such as osteoarthritis (OA), have been identified for their mechanistic role. This study aims to explore causal relationships between anthropometric risk factors, OA, and spinal stenosis.

UK Biobank metrics were examined for variation in white blood cell count. Variation increased with age, increased with weight up to 80 kg then decreased. Female range was greater than male.

This longitudinal study used diet-wide association studies (DWAS) to investigate the association between diverse dietary food and nutrient intakes and the onset of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) Out of 502,505 participants from the UK Biobank, 119,040 with dietary data free of T2DM at the baseline were included.

People with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) are more vulnerable to social disconnection compared with the general population. Social isolation and loneliness were measured using self-report questionnaires. Loneliness (yes vs no) was associated with a greater risk for a composite of incident MI or stroke.

Bone marrow adipose tissue (BMAT) represents > 10% fat mass in healthy humans. It can be measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as the bone marrow fat fraction (BMFF) Human MRI studies have identified several diseases associated with BMFF.

Anxiety disorders are common, complex psychiatric disorders with twin heritabilities of 30-60%. We conducted a genome-wide association study of Lifetime Anxiety Disorder and Current Anxiety Symptoms. We conclude that common genetic variation accounts for a substantive proportion of the genetic architecture underlying anxiety.

Research on the relationship between blue light exposure and diabetes development is limited. The present study aimed to investigate whether it is affected by sleep duration, physical activity, outdoor activity time, and genetic susceptibility.

Meaning in life is an aspect of eudaimonic well-being associated with lower dementia risk. This research examines whether this protective association extends to Parkinson's disease (PD) Participants from the UK Biobank reported on their meaning in life.

The impact of residential greenness on incident idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is unknown. 469,348 participants in the UK Biobank were included and followed until December 2020. After a median follow-up of 11.85 years, 1574 IPF cases were identified.

Rare variants are believed to play a substantial role in the genetic architecture of mental disorders, particularly in coding regions. However, limited evidence supports the impact of rare variants on anxiety. We used whole-exome sequencing data from 200,643 participants in the UK Biobank.

Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) affects many populations. Relationship between creatinine to cystatin C ratio (CCR) and MASLD remains unclear. Study included 368,634 participants from the UK Biobank for cross-sectional and prospective analyses.

There is a lack of literature concerning the effects of visceral adipose on the development of first cardiometabolic disease (FCMD) and its progression to CMM. 423,934 participants from the UK Biobank with different baseline disease conditions were included in the analysis. Visceral adiposity was estimated by calculating the visceral adiposity index (VAI)

The American Heart Association's Life's Simple 7 became the Life's Essential 8 after the addition of sleep duration. The authors tested the hypothesis that suboptimal sleep duration is associated with poorer neuroimaging brain health profiles in asymptomatic middle-aged adults.

It is unclear whether diet-associated inflammation is related to the development of anxiety disorders. In the UK Biobank Study of 96,679 participants, baseline E-DII scores were calculated from the average intake of at least two 24 h dietary recalls. Consuming a pro-inflammatory diet was significantly associated with a higher risk of total anxiety disorders (HR Q4vsQ1  = 1.12, 95% CI =1.00-1.25)

Right ventricular ejection fraction (RVEF) and end-diastolic volume (RVEDV) are not readily assessed through traditional modalities. We trained a deep learning-ECG model to predict RV dilation, RV dysfunction, and numerical RVEDV and RVEF from a 12-lead ECG paired with reference-standard cardiac magnetic resonance imaging volumetric measurements in UK Biobank. Over a median follow-up of 2.3 years, predicted RVEf was associated with adjusted transplant-free survival (hazard ratio, 1.40 for each 10% decrease)

A total of 251,825 participants free of CKD from the UK Biobank were included. Cardiovascular health was scored using LE8 and categorized as low, moderate, and high. Cox proportional hazard models were employed to evaluate the associations of LE8 scores with new-onset CKD.

The impact of CYP2C19 genotype on clopidogrel outcomes is one of the most well established pharmacogenetic interactions. However, there is a scarcity of large-scale real-world data on the extent of this pharmacogenetics effect. This study utilizes the UK Biobank dataset, including 10 365 patients treated with clop idogrel.

Identifying causal variants from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) is challenging due to widespread linkage disequilibrium. Functional annotations of the genome may help to prioritize variants that are biologically relevant. Classical fine-mapping methods conducting an exhaustive search of variant-level causal configurations have a high computational cost.

Over 90 independent risk variants have been identified for Parkinson's disease using genome-wide association studies. Most studies have been performed in just one population at a time. Here we performed a large-scale multi-ancestry meta-analysis with 49,049 cases and 18,785 proxy cases.

Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) and anxiety-depression co-morbidity are attracting widespread attention. Previous studies have shown the relationship between individual psychiatric disorders and ACEs. This study will analyze the correlation between anxiety- Depressed co-Morbidity and different levels ofACEs.

Elevated lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] is a genetic driver for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) We aimed to provide novel insights into the associated risk of elevated versus normal Lp( a) levels on major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in an incident ASCVD cohort.

Mendelian randomization (MR) is an effective approach for revealing causal risk factors that underpin complex traits and diseases. Most existing multivariable MR methods have been developed for two-sample setting or a small number of exposures. In this study, we introduce a one-sample MR method based on partial least squares and Lasso regression (MR-PL) We applied MR-PL to the datasets from UK Biobank to reveal the causal effects of 36 white matter tracts on 180 complex traits.

The Rose hypothesis predicts that genetic risk factors will be associated with individuals' risk of disease but not population disparities. We used the UK Biobank to test the Rose hypothesis for type 2 diabetes (T2D) ethnic disparities in the UK. Both genetic and socioenvironmental T2D risk factors show greater within (w) than between (b) ethnic group variation.

Hypertension (HTN) involves genetic variability in the renin-angiotensin system and influences antihypertensive response. We previously reported that angiotens inogen ( AGT ) messenger RNA (mRNA) is endogenously bound by miR-122-5p. We aimed to test the hypothesis that increased  AGT  by rs5051 C > T counterbalances AGT  decreased by rs699 A > G, and when these variants occur independently.

It has been suggested that glycoprotein acetyls (GlycA) better reflects chronic inflammation than high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) But paediatric/life-course data are sparse. Using data from the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children and UK Biobank, we compared short- (over weeks) and long-term correlations of GlycA and hsCRP.

HDPs are related to unfavourable maternal cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk profiles later in life. We investigated whether genetic liability to pre-eclampsia and gestational hypertension is associated with CVD risk factors and occurrence of CVD events.

Individuals with a low estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) are at a high risk of death. This study aimed to assess the causal relationship of low eGFR with all-cause and cause-specific mortality. Using data from 436,214 people in the United Kingdom, we applied conventional statistical analyses and those incorporating genetic data.

Environmental exposures play a crucial role in shaping children's behavioral development. However, the mechanisms by which these exposures interact with brain functional connectivity and influence behavior remain unexplored. We examined the predictive power of brain functional network connectivity (FNC) and 41 environmental exposures for 23 behaviors related to cognitive ability and mental health.

A total of 115,453 adults without prior CKD at baseline were included from UK Biobank (2006-2010) Six common lifestyle factors including smoking, body mass index, sleep, diet, physical activity and alcohol consumption were combined into an unhealthy lifestyle score. Each additional type of childhood adversity was associated with a 12% increment in the risk of developing CKD.

Physical activity (PA) has been linked with cancer incidence. This study aimed to explore the optimal PA patterns in reducing cancer incidence and the associated potential mediators. Between 2006 and 2010, 502,400 participants were recruited from the UK Biobank. Four distinct PA trajectories were identified.

Both COA and AOA have a genetically causal effect on osteoporosis, and the risk was greatly higher in AOA. Besides corticosteroids, the increased risk of osteopsorosis among asthma patients should be attributed to genetic susceptibility and other asthma medications.

Cannabis use is increasing worldwide. Previous studies have reported an association between cannabis use and a higher risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) Most were cross-sectional and generally relied on diagnostic coding to identify cannabis users.

Long-term exposures to particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter smaller than 2.5 &#181;m were associated with increased risk of stroke. Participants with high genetic risk and exposure to high air pollutants had &#8776;45% (31%, 61%) higher risk of Stroke. Of note, we observed additive and multiplicative interactions between genetic susceptibility and air pollutants on stroke events.

The relationship between alcohol consumption and the risk of incident atrial fibrillation remains controversial. We investigated whether the relationship could be associated with the genetic predisposition to alcohol metabolism. A total of 399,329 subjects with genetic data from the UK Biobank database were identified and followed for incident AF until 2021.

Poor oral health is a modifiable risk factor that is associated with clinically observed cardiovascular disease. Relationship between oral and brain health is not well understood. Poor oral health was associated with a 9% increase in WMH volume.

It is not clear if antagonizing the GIP (glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide) receptor (GIPR) for treatment of obesity is likely to increase the risk of fractures. We analyzed the association of 3 missense variants in GIPR and 2 rare variants with risk of fracture and with BMD in a large meta-analysis of up to 1.2 million participants. Burden of LoF variants was not associated with fractures, but was associated with eBMD.

Parkinson's disease is a genetically complex disorder. Multiple genes have been shown to contribute to the risk of Parkinson's disease. Currently 90 independent risk variants have been identified by genome-wide association studies.

SLC18B1 is a sister gene to the vesicular monoamine and acetylcholine transporters. It is the only known polyamine transporter, with unknown physiological role. Slc18b1 knock out mice has significantly reduced polyamine content in the brain.

We describe a comprehensive effort that merges and harmonizes a large-scale dataset of 10,477 structural brain MRI scans from 18 different studies. We use this dataset and multi-atlas-based image processing methods to obtain a hierarchical partition of the brain from larger anatomical regions to individual cortical and deep structures. We provide a web-based visualization interface to generate and present the resulting age trends.

Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and testosterone may be related to prostate cancer risk. Acromegaly is associated with clinically high IGF-I concentrations. Klinefelter's syndrome, testicular hypofunction and hypopituitarism are associated with low testosterone concentrations.

Using genome-wide common genetic variation data, we calculate sex-specific genetic correlations amongst body fat %, fat mass, fat-free mass, physical activity, glycemic traits and 17 psychiatric traits. Two patterns emerge: (1) anorexia nervosa, schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and education years are negatively genetically correlated. (2) attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), alcohol dependence, insomnia, and heavy smoking are positively correlated.

Uncertainty exists regarding the relation of body size and weight change with dementia risk. As populations continue to age and the global obesity epidemic shows no sign of waning, reliable quantification of such associations is important. Obesity was associated with higher risk in vascular dementia.

Mendelian randomisation approach was used to investigate the causal effect of neuroticism, education, and physical activity on job satisfaction. One standard deviation (1 SD) higher genetically determined neuroticism score (4.07 units) was associated with -0.31 units lower job satisfaction (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.38 to 0.24). Education (0.02) andphysical activity (0).08) did not show any evidence for causal association with job. satisfaction. Our study highlights the importance of considering the confounding effect of negative personality traits for studies onJob satisfaction.

Childhood maltreatment is highly prevalent and serves as a risk factor for mental and physical disorders. Self-reported childhood maltreatment appears heritable, but the specific genetic influences on this phenotype are largely unknown. Genome-wide association analysis was undertaken, using a discovery sample from the UK Biobank (UKBB) and a replication sample from Psychiatric Genomics Consortium-posttraumatic stress disorder group (PGC-PTSD) Two genome-wide significant loci were identified in the discovery dataset but were not replicated in PGC-PtsD.

Hypertension is a key risk factor for major adverse cardiovascular events. Dietary interventions are an effective approach to lower blood pressure (BP) but are not equally effective across all individuals. We investigated whether the genetics of BP could be used to identify individuals with hypertension who may receive a particular benefit from lowering sodium intake and boosting potassium levels.

Cigarette smoke contains both nicotine and carcinogens, but not all smokers develop lung cancer. We aimed to delineate the interaction between metabolizing ability of tobacco carcinogens and smoking intensity in mediating genetic susceptibility. Single-variant and gene-based associations of 43 tobacco carcinogen-metabolizing genes with lung cancer were analyzed.

One hundred and eighty-one rare candidate predisposition variants were shared in at least one cousin pair from a high-risk pedigree. A rare variant in  MDH2 was found to segregate with breast-cancer-affected relatives in one extended pedigree.

Mood disorders, including depression and anxiety, affect almost one-fifth of the world's adult population. Mutations in circadian clock genes have previously been associated with mood disorders both directly and indirectly through alterations in circadian phase. We found no significant effects on anxiety from individual circadian gene variants. Only circadian genotypes with multiple SNP variants showed significant associations with anxiety.

Recorded symptoms in cancer patients pre-diagnosis may vary between different sources of electronic health records (EHRs) We analysed primary care EHRs in UK Biobank and Clinical Practice Research Datalink populations linked to cancer registry data.

Impact of air pollution on incident chronic kidney disease (CKD) in diabetic patients is insufficiently studied. We aimed to examine exposure-response associations of PM 2.5 , PM 10 , PM 2-10 , NO 2 , and NO X with incident CKD in diabetic Patients in the UK. We also widened exposure level of PM2.5  and examined PM 2 -CKd association in diabetic. patients across the entire range of global concentration.

The relationship between the long-term joint exposure to ambient air pollution and incidence of myocardial infarction (MI) and modification by genetic susceptibility remain inconclusive. We analysed 329 189 UK Biobank participants without MI at baseline. Exposure concentrations to particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM10), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), and nitrogen oxides (NOx) were obtained.

Excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) has been associated with cardiovascular disease and death. EDS is prevalent in individuals having short and long sleep duration. We sought to clarify the relationship between sleep duration subtypes of EDS with cardiovascular outcomes, accounting for these subtypes.

High serum urate is a prerequisite for gout and associated with metabolic disease. Genome-wide association studies have reported dozens of loci associated with urate control. Here, we employed trans-ancestral meta-analysis using data from European and East Asian populations to identify 10 new loci.

We investigated the genetic contribution to dietary intake in a sample of 335,576 individuals from the UK Biobank study. A principal component analysis applied to diet question item responses generated two components: Diet Component 1 (DC1) represented a meat-related diet and Diet Component 2 (DC2) a fish and plant-related Diet. We estimated significant genetic correlations between both DCs and schizophrenia, and several other traits.

Urinary biomarkers are associated with cardiovascular disease, but the nature of these associations is not well understood. We performed multivariable-adjusted regression models to assess associations of random spot measurements of the urine sodium-potassium ratio (UNa/UK) and urine albumin adjusted for creatinine with cardiovascular risk factors, cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D)

 Expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) are genetic variants associated with gene expression. Using genome-wide genotype data, it is now possible to impute gene expression using eQTL mapping efforts. This approach can be used to analyse previously unexplored relationships between gene expression and in vivo measures of human brain structural connectivity.

Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of blindness. AMD severity is primarily measured by images of the fundus of the retina. We used both genotypes and fundus images to predict whether an eye had progressed to late AMD with a modified deep convolutional neural network.

Iiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a complex lung disease characterized by scarring of the lung. Genome-wide association studies have reported signals of association implicating multiple pathways including host defense, telomere maintenance, signaling, and cell-cell adhesion. We conducted genome-wide analyses across three independent studies and meta-analyzed these results to generate the largest genome- wide association study of IPF to date.

 Circulating metabolite levels are biomarkers for cardiovascular disease (CVD) We studied association of rare variants and 226 serum lipoproteins, lipids and amino acids in 7,142 healthy participants. We leveraged the information from multiple metabolite measurements on the same participants to improve discovery in rare variant association analyses.

Minimal phenotyping refers to the reliance on the use of a small number of self-reported items for disease case identification. We report differences in genetic architecture between depression defined by minimalphenotyping and strictly defined major depressive disorder (MDD) The former has a lower genotype-derived heritability that cannot be explained by inclusion of milder cases.

Lipid levels are important markers for the development of cardio-metabolic diseases. Although hundreds of associated loci have been identified, contribution of genetic factors to variation in lipids is not fully understood. We performed genome-wide association analyses for four lipid traits in over 45,000 ancestrally diverse participants.

Stroke incidence in younger and middle-aged people is growing. Despite this, its associations in this subset of the stroke population are unknown. This study examined the association between self-reported walking pace and incident stroke.

Hemoglobin is the essential oxygen-carrying molecule in humans. It is regulated by cellular iron and oxygen sensing mechanisms. To search for novel variants associated with hemoglobin concentration, we performed genome-wide association studies. We found seven novel variants, six rare coding and one common, at the ACO1 locus.

Cerebrovascular disease contributes to age-related cognitive decline. We hypothesized that vascular risk factors would lead to cognitive impairment through the disruption of brain white matter network efficiency. Participants were 19 346 neurologically healthy individuals from UK Biobank that underwent diffusion MRI and cognitive testing.

We conducted genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of relative intake from the macronutrients fat, protein, carbohydrates, and sugar in over 235,000 individuals of European ancestries. We identified 21 unique, approximately independent lead SNPs.

Leveraging high-dimensional molecular datasets can help us develop mechanistic insight into associations between genetic variants and complex traits. In this study, we integrated human proteome data derived from brain tissue to evaluate whether targeted proteins putatively mediate the effects of genetic variants.

The study aimed to explore the association between early life and life-course exposure to social disadvantage and later life body mass index (BMI) We studied participants of Helsinki Birth Cohort Study born in 1934-1944 and Northern Finland Birth Cohorts born in 1966 and 1986.

Despite strong transethnic genetic correlations, the non-transferability of polygenic risk scores across populations suggests the presence of population-specific components of genetic architecture. We analyze nine complex traits in individuals of East Asian and European ancestry, restricting to common SNPs (MAF > 5%), and find that most common causal SNPs are shared by both populations.

We measured associations between genetic liability for high levels of inflammatory markers Interleukin-6 (IL-6) and C-reactive protein (CRP) We found no evidence of an association between our instruments for IL-6 and self-harm in the two-sample MR. However we found an inverse association between instruments for CRP andSelf-harm, indicating that higher levels of circulating CRP may protect against self- harm.

Obesity and its associated diseases are major health problems characterized by extensive metabolic disturbances. Understanding the causal connections between these phenotypes and variation in metabolite levels can uncover relevant biology and inform novel intervention strategies.

Lung function is highly heritable and differs between the sexes throughout life. Little is known about sex-differential genetic effects on lung function. We aimed to conduct the first genome-wide genotype-by-sex interaction study.

G Gestational diabetes Mellitus (GDM) affects 1 in 7 births and is associated with numerous adverse health outcomes for both mother and child. GDM is suspected to share a large common genetic background with type 2 diabetes (T2D) The aim of our study was to characterize different GDM polygenic risk scores (PRSs) and test their association with GDM.

Inhibitory interneurons orchestrate information flow across the cortex and are implicated in psychiatric illness. We demonstrate stereotyped negative correlation of somatostatin and parvalbumin transcripts within human and non-human primates. schizophrenia genetic risk is enriched among interneuron-linked genes.

Baseline lung function, quantified as forced expiratory volume in the first second of exhalation (FEV 1 ), is a standard diagnostic criterion used by clinicians to identify and classify lung diseases. Using whole-genome sequencing data from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine project, we identified a novel genetic association with FEV 1 on chromosome 12 in 867 African American children with asthma. We explored statistical and functional evidence for all variants in linkage disequilibrium with the three independent signals.

Plant-based dietary patterns may be related to better cardiovascular profiles. Whether a healthy plant-based diet index is predictive of future cardiovascular disease (CVD) across people with different genetic susceptibility remains uncertain. The risk of CVD was gradually decreased in association with higher adherence to healthful-PDI.

The American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association defines hypertension as a blood pressure &#8805;130/80 mm Hg. The 2018 European Society of Cardiologist (ESC) and 2019 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines use a &##8705;140/90mm Hg threshold. Our objective was to study the associations between isolated diastolic hypertension (IDH) and cardiovascular disease.

We developed Neuroharmony using a total of 15,026 sMRI images. The tool was able to reduce scanner-related bias from unseen scans. It represents a significant step towards imaging-based clinical tools.

Pregnancy involves maternal brain adaptations. Little is known about how parity influences women's brain aging trajectories later in life. Findings indicate that subcortical brain modulations during pregnancy and postpartum may be traceable decades after childbirth.

Blood lipids have been associated with the development of a range of cancers, including breast, lung and colorectal cancer. For endometrial cancer, observational studies have reported inconsistent associations between blood lipids and cancer risk. To reduce biases from unmeasured confounding, we performed a bidirectional, two-sample Mendelian randomization analysis.

It remains unknown whether blood pressure pulsatility (pulse pressure [PP]) causally affects stroke risk independently of the steady pressure component (mean arterial pressure [MAP) We applied multivariable Mendelian randomization analyses to explore associations with ischemic stroke, intracerebral hemorrhage, and their subtypes. Higher genetically predicted MAP was associated with higher risk of ischeMIC stroke and intracrebral bleeding across the examined age spectrum.

Birthweight of first child was positively influenced by maternal education, with 7 years of maternal education as the reference. A causal relation between maternal education and offspring birthweight was revealed by IVW MR (estimated effect = 0.074 for one standard deviation increase in maternal education years) and by complementary MR methods. This connection was not substantially affected by paternal education or horizontal pleiotropy.

Fundus tessellation (FT) is a prevalent clinical feature associated with myopia. It has implications in the development of myopic maculopathy, which causes irreversible visual impairment. Accurate classification of FT can help predict the disease progression and prognosis.

In women but not men, we observed that elevated polygenic risk for depression was associated with reduced cerebellar GM volume. In women with current depression compared to both women with remitted depression and women who never had depression, we also observed GM reductions in ventral and medial prefrontal, insular, and medial temporal regions.

Hepatic fat content can be non-invasively estimated by controlled attenuation parameter (CAP) during transient elastography. The aim of this study was to examine the determinants and predictors of CAP values in individuals with metabolic dysfunction. We enrolled 1230 consecutive apparently healthy individuals with &#8805;3 metabolic dysfunction features.

Chronic kidney disease is a leading cause of death and disability globally. Individuals of African ancestry (AFR) or with ancestry in the Americas (AMS) are under-represented in genome-wide association studies (GWASs) of kidney function. To address this bias, we conducted a large meta-analysis of GWASs of estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) in 145,732 AFR and AMS individuals. We identified 41 loci at genome- wide significance, of which two have not been previously reported in any ancestry group.

Many metabolomics studies of depression have been performed, but these have been limited by their scale. A comprehensive in silico analysis of global metabolite levels in large populations could provide robust insights into the pathological mechanisms underlying depression and candidate clinical biomarkers.

Benzene affects human health through environmental exposure in addition to occupational contact. Few studies have examined the associations between long-term exposure to low concentrations of ambient benzene and mortality risks. This prospective cohort study consists of 393,042 participants without stroke, myocardial infarction, or cancer at baseline from the UK Biobank.

Normal and pathologic neurobiological processes influence brain morphology in coordinated ways that give rise to patterns of structural covariance. The genetic underpinnings of these patterns remain largely unknown. We apply a stochastic multivariate factorization method to a diverse population of 50,699 individuals.

Researchers examined associations between a genetic risk score (GRS) associated with CRC liability and 231 circulating metabolites measured by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The GRS for CRC was associated with up to 28% of the circulating metabolites at FDR-P. These analyses suggest that higher genetic liability to CRC can cause early alterations in systemic metabolism.

BridgePRS is a novel Bayesian polygenic risk score (PRS) method. It leverages shared genetic effects across ancestries to increase PRS portability. Simulations suggest that the performance of BridgePRS relative to PRS-CSx increases as uncertainty increases.

Primary aldosteronism (PA) is an adrenal disorder of autonomous aldosterone secretion which promotes arterial injury. We aimed to explore whether PA is causally associated with lower-extremity arterial disease (LEAD) We included 39,713 patients with diabetes and 419,312 participants without diabetes from UK Biobank.

The impact of elevated systolic blood pressure (SBP) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) on the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) at different stages of life is unclear. We aimed to investigate whether genetically mediated SBP and LDL-C is associated with risk of CHD throughout life.

The selfish brain mechanism proposes that in some patients with impaired cerebral blood flow (CBF) or cerebrovascular function, hypertension may develop as a compensatory mechanism. We investigated whether regional fractional ALFF (fALFF) differs between 2054 hypertensives and 1724 normotensives using data from the UK Biobank dataset.

A need exists for effective and practical tools to identify individuals at increased risk of liver-related outcomes (LROs) within the general population. We externally validated the chronic liver disease (CLivD) score for LROs in the UK Biobank cohort. We also investigated the sequential combined use of CLivD and fibrosis-4 (FIB-4) scores.

 Epidemiological studies observed an association between sex hormones, including estradiol, and kidney function. We conducted a Mendelian randomization (MR) study to assess a possible causal effect ofEstradiol levels on kidney function in males and females. The two-sample MR indicated that genetically predicted estradio levels are significantly associated with eGFR in men (beta = 0.077;  p  = 5.2E-05). We identified a single locus at chromosome 14 associated with estradiola levels in men being significant in the one- sample MR.

Brain imaging and genomics are critical tools enabling characterization of the genetic basis of brain disorders. However, imaging large cohorts is expensive and may be unavailable for legacy datasets used for genome-wide association studies (GWASs) We developed an image-mediated association study (IMAS), which utilizes borrowed imaging/genomics data to conduct association mapping.

Sex differences exist in the likelihood of cognitive decline. Age at hypertension diagnosis is a unique contributor to brain structural changes associated with cerebral small vessel disease. However, whether this relationship differs between sexes remains unclear.

This study proposes the use of polygenic risk scores (PRS) as reliable proxies of COVID-19 severity across three large biobanks: the Michigan Genomics Initiative (MGI), UK Biobank (UKB), and NIH All of Us. The goal is to identify associations between pre-existing conditions and COVID19 severity.

Hip and knee arthroplasty aims to reduce joint pain and increase functional mobility in patients with osteoarthritis. The degree to which arthro plasty is associated with higher physical activity is unclear. This cross-sectional study analyzed wrist-worn accelerometer data collected from UK Biobank participants.

The association between depression and hypertension has been extensively investigated. We sought to investigate the bidirectional relationship. We first performed observational analyses using longitudinal data from the UK Biobank. We then performed genetic analyses leveraging summary statistics fromGWASs.

Physical activity (PA) and sedentary time (ST) have been shown to affect mental health outcomes in opposite directions. We used accelerometery-derived measures of PA and ST from the UK Biobank and depression, anxiety and well-being data. Genetically instrumented higher PA was associated with lower odds of depression.

Mounting evidence suggests considerable diversity in brain aging trajectories, primarily arising from the complex interplay between age, genetic, and environmental risk factors. We conducted a comprehensive association analysis between cerebral structural measures and prevalent risk factors, using data from 36,969 UK Biobank subjects aged 44-81.

Hypertension (a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease) is highly prevalent in Africa. Most hypertension-related genome-wide association studies (GWASs) focus on non-African populations. AWI-Gen study GWAS meta-analysis for blood pressure (BP)-related traits (systolic and diastolic BP, pulse pressure, mean-arterial pressure and hypertension) from three sub-Saharan African geographic regions (N = 10,775)

Angiopoietin-like protein (ANGPTL)3 regulates plasma lipids by inhibiting LPL and endothelial lipase (EL) ANGPTL3 inactivation lowers LDL-C independently of the classical LDLR-mediated pathway.

Cardiometabolic morbidity and medications have been linked with adverse outcomes from coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) We studied 7,099 participants from the UK Biobank who had been tested for CO VID-19 in hospital. Age, sex, ethnicity, body mass index (BMI), diabetes, hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia, ACEi/ARB use, prior myocardial infarction (MI), and smoking were considered. Black, Asian, and Minority ethnic (BAME) ethnicity, male sex, and higher BMI were independently associated with a positive result.

Humans display reproducible sex differences in cognition and behavior. However, the consistency, causes and consequences of sex differences are poorly characterized and hotly debated. Recent studies in mice have established highly consistent sex biases in regional gray matter volume. Here, we directly test translatability of rodent findings to humans.

Using genetic scores for fasting plasma glucose (FPG GS) and type 2 diabetes (T2D GS), we investigated whether the fasting, 1-hour and 2-hour glucose thresholds from the WHO 2013 criteria for gestational diabetes (GDM) have different implications for genetic susceptibility to raised fasting glucose. We looked at women from the Hyperglycemia and Adverse Pregnancy Outcome (HAPO) and Atlantic Diabetes in Pregnancy (DIP) studies. In HAPO and DIP, the mean FPG GS was higher than controls.

A polygenic score (PGS) or polygenic risk score (PRS) is an estimate of an individual's genetic liability to a trait or disease. It is calculated according to their genotype profile and relevant genome-wide association study (GWAS) data. PRSs are exploited to assess shared etiology between phenotypes, to evaluate the clinical utility of genetic data for complex disease.

Existing methods for fitting variance components do not scale well to large-scale datasets of genetic variation. We present a method for variance components analysis that is accurate and efficient. We observe enrichment of heritability in FANTOM5 enhancers in asthma, eczema, thyroid and autoimmune disorders.

Genetic risk scores, known as polygenic risk scores (PRSs), aggregate risk information from the most important genetic variants into a single score that describes an individual's genetic predisposition to a given disease. This article reviews recent developments in the predictive utility of PRSs.

Tissue characterisation with cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) parametric mapping has the potential to detect and quantify both focal and diffuse alterations in myocardial structure. Native T 1 mapping in particular has shown promise as a useful biomarker to support diagnostic, therapeutic and prognostic decision-making.

Most loci identified by GWASs have been found in populations of European ancestry (EUR) In trans-ethnic meta-analyses for 15 hematological traits in 746,667 participants, including 184,535 non-EUR individuals, we identified 5,552 trait-variant associations at p  -9.

It has been known since 1904 that, in humans, diverse cognitive traits are positively intercorrelated. This forms the basis for the general factor of intelligence (g) We directly test whether there is a partial genetic basis for individual differences in g using data from seven different cognitive tests.

Major depression has been linked to changes in white matter architecture. It remains unclear whether risk factors for depression are directly associated with these alterations. We reexamined white matter fiber tracts in individuals with depressive symptoms.

Inflammatory endotypes ( e.g.  T2-high (eosinophilic)) may play a key role in asthma exacerbations. We aimed to assess whether genetic susceptibility underlies asthma exacerbation risk. In the UK Biobank, we identified 11 604 cases and 37 890 controls. While no variants reached genome-wide significance (p -8 ) in the primary analysis, 116 signals were suggestively significant. In GERA, two single nucleotide polymorphisms (rs34643691 and rs149721630) replicated.

Binge and heavy binge drinking significantly increase the risk of alcohol-related cirrhosis. Higher genetic predisposition further amplifies the risk. Diabetes consistently elevates ARC risk across all drinking and PRS categories.

CKD is determined by an interplay of monogenic, polygenic, and environmental risks. Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) and COL4A-associated nephropathy represent the most common monogenic kidney diseases. By combining SNP array, exome/genome sequence, and electronic health record data, we demonstrate that the genome-wide polygenic score significantly predicts CKD among ADPKD monogenic variant carriers.

BioMOBS is a workflow consisting of two data visualization tools integrated with an open-source molecular information database to perform clinically relevant analyses. The central visualisation tool, where data-driven and literature-based findings can be integrated, is available within the github link as well.

Hospital admissions account for a large share of the healthcare costs incurred by people with asthma. We assessed the hospital care use and costs associated with asthma severity using the UK Biobank cohort and linked healthcare data.

Smoking is the leading risk factor for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) Yet many people who never smoke develop COPD. We perform a longitudinal analysis of COPD in the UK Biobank to derive and validate the Socioeconomic and Environmental Risk Score. The score captures additive and cumulative environmental, behavioral, and socioeconomic exposure risks beyond tobacco smoking.

Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Current risk assessment tools have limitations in their applicability and accuracy. Study aimed to develop machine learning models to predict diagnosis and 1-year risk of VTE.

AIMS: To explore the relationship between remnant cholesterol (RC) and risk of premature mortality as well as life expectancy in the general population. We included a total of 428,804 participants from the UK Biobank for analyses. Compared with low RC group, the moderate RC group was associated with a 9% increased risk.

CYP2A6 is a polymorphic enzyme that inactivates nicotine. Two studies found that CYP2A7 deletions were associated with ovarian cancer risk. An updated reference panel was created to impute CYP1A6 SVs from UK Biobank array data.

Preserved ratio impaired spirometry (PRISm) is associated with respiratory symptoms and comorbidities. We undertook a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of PRISm in UK Biobank participants. 22 signals reached significance in the joint meta-analysis, including four signals novel for lung function.

Complement components have been linked to schizophrenia and autoimmune disorders. We examined the association between neonatal circulating C3 and C4 protein concentrations in 68,768 neonates and the risk of six mental disorders. Post-hoc analyses found that a higher C3 concentration was associated with a reduced risk of schizophrenia in females.

Irregular sleep may increase the risk of cardiometabolic conditions, but its association with incident dementia is unclear. We used Cox proportional hazard models to investigate the relationships between sleep regularity and incident dementia in 88,094 UK Biobank participants.

Heart failure (HF) and atrial fibrillation (AF) frequently coexist. Over 50% patients with HF having AF, while one-third of those with AF develop HF. Differences in obesity-mediated association between HF and HF-related AF among Asians and Europeans were evaluated.

Chinese inpatients exhibit higher multimorbidity prevalence and more complex networks compared to their UK counterparts. Essential hypertension, dyslipidemia, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and gastritis and duodenitis were the hub diseases in both populations. Targeted interventions for digestive and genitourinary diseases are warranted for the UK.

Short tandem repeats (STRs) are genomic regions consisting of repeated sequences of 1-6 bp in succession. We imputed 445,720 STRs into genotype arrays from 408,153 White British UK Biobank participants and tested for association with 44 blood phenotypes. STRs account for 5.2%-7.6% of causal variants identifiable from GWASs for these traits.

Stroke and dementia are the leading causes of neurological disease burden. Detrimental effects of air pollution on both conditions are increasingly recognised. The impacts on the dynamic transitions of stroke and dementia have not yet been explored.

Previous observational studies have been controversial regarding the association of leukocyte telomere length (LTL) with prostate cancer (PCa) and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) The study provides convincing evidence supporting that longer LTL increases the risk of PCa and BPH.

Critical care patients require stronger analgesic prescriptions in the 12 months following hospital discharge. Patients from areas of high socioeconomic deprivation may also be associated with increased analgesic requirements. Multidisciplinary support is required for patients who may be at risk of chronic opioid use.

Childhood overweight increases the risk of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease in adulthood. However, the impact of childhood leanness on adult obesity and disease risk has been overlooked. We examined the independent and combined influences of child and adult body size.

Genetically proxied (using a surrogate biomarker) inhibition of phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5), an established drug target for erectile dysfunction, with fertility, sexual behaviour, and subjective wellbeing. Two sample cis-mendelian randomisation study.

White matter coordinates communications between different brain regions and is related to a wide range of neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disorders. Previous genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have uncovered loci associated with white matter microstructure. In this study, we adopt the concept of supervariants, a combination of alleles in multiple loci, to account for potential multi-SNP effects.

The brain-predicted age difference may serve as a biomarker for neurodegeneration. We investigated the brain-PAD in patients with schizophrenia (SCZ), first-episode schizophrenia spectrum disorders (FE-SSDs), and treatment-resistant schizophrenia (TRS) Using structural magnetic resonance imaging (sMRI), we compared its performance with models based on three machine learning (ML) algorithms.

DeepFlow is a deep-learning system to extract cardiac flow and volumes from phase-contrast cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. A mixed-linear model applied to 37,653 individuals from the UK Biobank reveals genome-wide significant associations across cardiac dynamic flow volumes. Mendelian randomization reveals a causal role for aortic root size in aortIC valve regurgitation.

COPD was associated with lower physical activity levels in both Chinese and British COPD patients. COPD was inversely correlated with physical activity level, particularly in a dose-response manner in the CKB population.

The study looked at women aged 45-60 years with no history of endometrial cancer or hysterectomy. The final model incorporated age, body mass index, waist circumference, age at menarche, menopause and last birth. It was well calibrated on external validation and had improved net benefit compared with previously developed models.

Study aims to elucidate the association between reproductive lifespan and the risk of late-onset psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis (PsA) We conducted a prospective cohort study in postmenopausal women without baseline PsA. We found that later ANM and longer reproductive years were significantly associated with decreased risks of PsA and Psoriasis.

Cerebrovascular risk factors increase the likelihood of dementia in older people. Their impact on cognitive ageing in younger, healthy brains is less clear. UK Biobank provides cognition and brain imaging measures in the largest population cohort studied to date.

Study partitions phenotypic variance in metabolic syndrome (MetS), blood glucose (GLU), triglycerides (TG), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and blood pressure. Analysis included a cohort of 62,822 unrelated individuals with white British ancestry, sourced from the UK biobank. Significant proportions of the MetS variance were attributed to distinct data sources.

Fragility fractures may be a complication of diabetes, partly caused by chronic hyperglycaemia. 117,054 individuals from the Copenhagen City Heart Study and the Copenhagen General Population Study were included for observational and one-sample Mendelian randomisation (MR) analyses. Fragility fractures were defined as fractures at the hip, spine and arm.

A total of 161,968 eligible participants from the UK Biobank were included. During a median follow-up of 9.66 years, 16,241 participants developed brain disorders. Individuals with elevated innate immunity markers including neutrophils, monocytes, platelets, neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), and systemic immune-inflammation index (SII) had an increased risk.

Evidence linking ozone to depression and anxiety disorders remains sparse. It remains unknown whether omega-3 fatty acid, or genetic susceptibility of mental disorders modify the impacts of ozone. The aim is to assess the associations of ambient ozone with depression and Anxiety.

The UK Biobank is the most used dataset for genome-wide association studies (GWAS) GWAS of sex, essentially sex differences in minor allele frequencies (sdMAF), has identified autosomal SNPs with significant sdMAF, but the X chromosome was excluded. We performed a whole genome SDMAF analysis, with ~410 k white British individuals.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) and coronary artery disease (CAD) often coexist and share genetic factors. This study aimed to investigate the common genetic factors underlying T2D and CAD in patients with CAD.

3D motion estimation from cine cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) images is important for the assessment of cardiac function and the diagnosis of cardiovascular diseases. We propose a novel learning framework, DeepMesh, which propagates a template heart mesh to a subject space and estimates the 3D motion of the heart mesh from CMR images for individual subjects.

Mental disorders are largely socially determined, yet the combined impact of multidimensional social factors on the two most common mental disorders remains unclear. We constructed a polysocial risk score (PsRS) including components from three domains: socioeconomic status, neighborhood and living environment and psychosocial factors. We tested the associations between 13 single social factors with Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ) score, Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale (GAD) score and self-reported depression and anxiety. Emotional stress, lack of social support and low household income were significantly associated with the development of depression and Anxiety.

Recent studies have shown that bile acids are essential in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) pathology. However, whether cholecystectomy increases the risk of IBS remains unclear. We aimed to investigate the association between chole Cystectomy and IBS risk in the UK Biobank.

The Great London Smog of 1952 (GLS) was an extreme air pollution event in December 1952. We use the GLS as a quasi-natural experiment to estimate the effect of exposure to air pollution in utero on adulthood health. Data from the UK Biobank is analysed for a cohort of participants born from December 1952 to July 1956.

Data were from a cohort of 88 282 adults (40-69 years) in UK Biobank that wore a wrist-worn triaxial accelerometer for 7 days. Data were linked to mortality outcomes with follow-up to October 31, 2021. Overall sleep duration was significantly associated with risk for all-cause (p)

Study used data from 26,729 NAFLD participants from the UK Biobank cohort study. 310 incident end-stage liver disease (ESLD) and 1750 deaths were recorded. Substituting free sugars with equal amounts of non-free sugars, starch or fiber was associated with a lower risk of incident ESLD and overall mortality.

The antagonistic pleiotropy hypothesis posits that natural selection for pleiotropic mutations that confer earlier or more reproduction but impair the post-reproductive life causes aging. Here, we genomically test this hypothesis using the genotypes, reproductive phenotypes, and death registry of 276,406 U.K. Biobank participants. We observe a strong, negative genetic correlation between reproductive traits and life span.

 type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is considered a putative causal risk factor for coronary artery disease (CAD) The intrinsic link underlying T2DM and CAD is not fully understood. We aimed to highlight the importance of integrated care targeting both diseases by investigating the phenotypic and genetic relationships.

Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic autoimmune disorder that affects life expectancy. Accelerated biological ageing is thought to be a major risk factor for age-related diseases, but its role in rheumatoids arthritis remains uncertain. We aimed to assess the associations between biological ageing and risk of rheumatic arthritis and genetic susceptibility to the disease. We also assessed the association between life expectancy and biological ageing status in people with rhearatoid arthritis.

Both genetic factors and air pollution are risk factors for coronary artery disease (CAD) The study aimed to comprehensively investigate their separate, combined and interaction effects.

Lung function and asthma hospitalisations were similar for white, black and North-East Asian participants. South-East (SE) Asians more commonly had an FEV 1 below the lower limits of normal.

 Reproductive risk factors and air pollution for developing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) have been documented separately. The combined effects of overall reproductive risk status on COPD and the extent to which this can be impacted by air pollution are unknown. The aim of this study was to construct a reproductive risk score (RRS) and an air pollution score (APS)

 Accelerated biological ageing has been associated with an increased risk of several chronic respiratory diseases. However, the associations between phenotypic age, a new biological age indicator based on clinical chemistry biomarkers, and common respiratory diseases have not been evaluated. We analysed data from 308 592 participants in the UK Biobank.

Brain age, most commonly inferred from T1-weighted magnetic resonance images (T1w MRI), is a robust biomarker of brain health and related diseases. Superior accuracy in brain age prediction is achieved predominantly through deep neural networks. However, comparing study results is difficult due to differences in datasets, evaluation methodologies and metrics.

Fitness levels may reduce risks of endometrial, colorectal, and breast cancer. relationships with adiposity are complex and may mediate these relationships. Increasing fitness, including via changes in body composition, may be an effective strategy for cancer prevention.

Brain age prediction from 3D MRI volumes using deep learning has recently become a popular research topic. Training deep networks can be very computationally demanding for large datasets like the U.K. Biobank.

Fetuin-A acts as both an inhibitor of calcification and insulin signaling. Previous studies reported conflicting results on the association between fetuin- A and cardiometabolic diseases. We aim to provide further insights into the association using a Mendelian randomization strategy.

We used morphometric methods to study the kidneys by constructing surface meshes from kidney segmentations from abdominal MRI data in 38,868 participants in the UK Biobank. Age was associated with kidney shape consistently across disease groups. Body mass index (BMI) and waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) were also associated with the participants with T2D.

Study included 344,609 adult participants from the UK Biobank cohort. Risk for 59 diseases was significantly associated with high neuroticism. Depression, anxiety, irritable bowel syndrome, migraine, spondylosis and sleep disorders were the most likely to develop.

Few studies have explored the association between the number of SAs and bipolar disorder and major depression (BDMD) We conducted a cross-sectional study of 13,200 female UK Biobank participants. We found that SA was an independent risk factor for BDMD.

Loss-of-function of DDX3X is a leading cause of neurodevelopmental disorders (NDD) We identify 3432 functionally abnormal variants, in three distinct classes. Systematic maps of variant effects have the potential to transform clinical interpretation of both germline and somatic disease-associated variation.

 reduced expression of the plasma membrane citrate transporter  SLC13A5 has been linked to increased longevity and mitigated age-related cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. Citrate, a vital component of the tricarboxylic acid cycle, constitutes 1-5% of bone weight. Disrupting this pathway impairs bone mineralization in young mice.

White matter hyperintensities (WMHs) are well-established markers of cerebral small vessel disease. Small and punctate WMHs have been reported with surprisingly high frequency even in young, neurologically asymptomatic adults. Most automated methods to segment WMH published to date are not optimized for detecting small and sparse WMH.

We used fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA) to label the capillaries on color fundus (CF) photographs. We trained a deep learning model (RMHAS-FA) to segment retinal capillary using CF. We tested the model's accuracy on a manually labeled internal test set (FundusCapi) For external validation, we tested the segmentation model on 7 vessel segmentation datasets. Smaller vessel skeleton density had a stronger correlation with CVD risk factors and incidence.

Fanconi anemia (FA) is a bone marrow failure and cancer predisposition syndrome. FA is caused by biallelic pathogenic variants in 1 of 22 genes involved in DNA interstrand cross-link repair. To investigate all FA genes, this study utilized the DiscovEHR cohort of 170,503 individuals with exome sequencing and electronic health data.

Endometriosis affects 1 in 9 women. It is characterised by the presence of endometrial-like tissue outside of the uterus. The main symptoms are pain and infertility.

Among 142,271 diabetes-free UK Biobank participants, 126,203 were normoglycemic and 16,068 were prediabetic at baseline. At baseline, dietary intake was assessed with a 24-h dietary record. A diabetes-related genetic risk score (GRS) was calculated using 424 single-nucleotide polymorphisms. There were significant additive and multiplicative interactions between IDI and GRS in relation to type 2 diabetes risk.

About one in 40 babies born in the world is a twin and there is much speculation on why twinning runs in families. We found significant genetic correlations with multiple aspects of female reproduction and body size. We hope our results will inform investigations of ovarian response in new and existing ARTs and the causes of female infertility.

Symptoms of major depressive disorder (MDD) are commonly assessed using self-rating instruments like the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) and the Composite International Diagnostic Interview Short-Form (CIDI-SF) We assessed the single nucleotide polymorphism heritability and genetic correlation of both sets of MDD symptoms.

Pancreatic cancer (PC) is influenced by both genetic and lifestyle factors. Adhering to a favorable lifestyle was associated with a lower risk of PC. The absolute risk reduction was more pronounced among those aged > 70 years.

Non-linear associations were observed between the menstrual cycle phase and total (p) cholesterol. Anthropometric, lifestyle, fitness and inflammatory markers were explored as potential mediators and moderators of the associations.

Sun exposure, although beneficial, shows a causal relationship with skin cancer risk. Using data from 2,500 United Kingdom twins, we observed sun seeking to be significantly heritable (h2 &#8805; 58%).

Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is a common, debilitating neuropathic face pain syndrome often resistant to therapy. Analysis of 290 whole exome-sequenced TN probands revealed enrichment of rare, damaging variants in GABA receptor-binding genes in cases.

Studies of sleep duration in relation to the risk of site-specific cancers other than breast cancer are scarce. Available results are inconclusive and the causality remains unclear. We aimed to investigate the potential causal associations of sleepduration with overall and site- specific cancers using the Mendelian randomization design.

Cortical folds help drive the parcellation of the human cortex into functionally specific regions. Variations in the length, depth, width, and surface area of these sulcal landmarks have been associated with disease. Before estimating the heritability of sulcal variation, the extent to which these metrics can be reliably extracted from in-vivo MRI must be established. Using four independent test-retest datasets, we found high reliability across the brain.

Mental health and well-being of teachers is an issue of great policy concern. High workload and associated stress is thought to be leading to a recruitment and retention crisis within the education profession.

With mounting interest in translating genome-wide association study (GWAS) hits from large meta-analyses, evaluating their generalizability in target populations is crucial. Here, we consider long-term survivors of childhood cancers from the St. Jude Lifetime Cohort Study. We show the limited generalizable of 1,376 robust SNP associations reported in the general population across 12 complex anthropometric and cardiometabolic phenotypes.

Ageing and neurodegenerative diseases cause morphological changes to the brain. Age-related brain changes are subtle, nonlinear, and spatially and temporally heterogenous. Machine learning models are suited to capture these patterns.

Handedness has been extensively studied because of its relationship with language and the over-representation of left-handers in some neurodevelopmental disorders. We conducted a genome-wide association meta-analysis of handedness (N = 1,766,671) We found 41 loci associated (P) with handedness.

 psychotic experiences are core symptoms of mental health disorders like schizophrenia. Both smoking behaviour and genetic risk for psychiatric disorders have been associated with psychotic experiences. We tested whether smoking status, maternal smoking around birth, and number of packs smoked/year were associated with lifetime occurrence of three psychotic experiences phenotypes.

This study uses exome sequencing and corresponding phenotypic data from Mount Sinai's BioMe (n = 32,344) and the United Kingdom Biobank (UKBB) Variant curation identified pathogenic/likely pathogenic (P/LP) variants in RASopathy genes and FBN1.

Sex differences for chronic back pain (cBP) have been reported, with females usually exhibiting greater morbidity, severity, and poorer response to treatment. We performed sex- and age-stratified genome-wide association study and single nucleotide polymorphism-by-sex interaction analysis for cBP defined as "Back pain for 3+ months"

Image Imputation Generative Adversarial Network (I2-GAN) learns key features of cardiac short axis (SAX) slices near missing information. It uses them as conditional variables to infer missing slices in the query volumes. The method achieves significant improvements over the state-of-the-art, in missing slice imputation for CMR.

Genetic variant rs2168518 in 15q24.1 previously associated with age-related macular degeneration. Analysis revealed a gender-specific association with male AMD patients and an association predominantly with choroidal neovascularization. AMD association colocalizes with an association signal of several blood pressure-related phenotypes.

Study aimed to comprehensively analyze the relationship between low bone mineral density (BMD) and the risk of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) Based on the large prospective population-based UK Biobank (UKB) cohort. Osteoporosis was associated with a higher risk of BPPV.

Existing SNP-heritability estimators that leverage summary statistics from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are much less efficient. We introduce a new method for local heritability estimation - Heritability Estimation with high Efficiency using LD and association Summary Statistics.

Study included 439 807 participants without liver diseases at baseline from the UK Biobank. Primary outcome was new-onset severe liver disease, a composite definition of compensated or decompensated liver cirrhosis, liver failure, hepatocellular carcinoma, and liver-related death.

 Randomised trials of vitamin D supplementation for cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality have generally reported null findings. However, generalisability of results to individuals with low vitamin D status is unclear. We aimed to characterise dose-response relationships between 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25[OH]D) concentrations and risk of coronary heart disease, stroke, and death.

Pancreatic cancer (PaCa) is a lethal cancer with an increasing incidence, highlighting the need for early prevention strategies. There is a lack of a comprehensive PaCa predictive model derived from large prospective cohorts. We have developed an integrated PaCa risk prediction model for PaCa using data from the UK Biobank.

There is no universally agreed-upon definition of what constitutes a planetary healthy, sustainable diet. We investigated the association between the EAT-Lancet reference diet and incident cancer, incident major cardiovascular events, and all-cause mortality.

 genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified tens of thousands of genetic loci. But the genetic architecture is still not fully understood for many complex traits. We leverage the identity-by-descent (IBD) segments inferred from a random projection-based IBD detection algorithm to develop a computationally efficient statistical test for IBD mapping in biobank-scale cohorts.

No genetic loci have been identified for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) in genome-wide association studies. Although co-morbidities between OCD and schizophrenia (SCZ) were observed, their common genetic etiology was not completely known. Here, we conducted a comprehensive investigation regarding the genetic architecture of OCD and the common genetic foundation shared by OCD and SCZ using summary statistics data. We identified 323 OCD-relevant variants located within 12 loci, with four loci shared the same causal variants.

Self-reported frequency of adding salt to foods could reflect a person's long-term salt taste preference. Salt intake has been associated with increased risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) Whether self-reported adding of salt to food is associated with higher risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD) remains unknown. UK Biobank participants aged 37 to 73 years who were free of CKD at baseline.

Lipoprotein(a) (Lp[a)%) concentrations are a highly heritable and potential causal risk factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) European Atherosclerosis Society and American Heart Association recommend screening of relatives of individuals with high Lp(a), but the expected yield of this approach has not been quantified in large populations.

Osteoporosis and fractures severely impact the elderly population. Polygenic risk scores for bone mineral density have demonstrated potential clinical utility. However, the value of rare genetic determinants in risk prediction has not been assessed. We constructed a genetic risk score, called ggSOS, to incorporate influential rare variants into the common variant-based polygenic risk score.

Dietary patterns have been associated with several cancers, especially gastrointestinal cancer (GIC) Whether a healthy dietary pattern could modify the risk of GIC among people with different genetic backgrounds is not clear. Large-scale prospective cohort study included 105,463 participants in UK Biobank who were aged 40-72 y.

The relationship between genetically-driven liver fat and coronary heart disease (CHD) remains unclear. ApoB-containing lipoproteins are known causal factors for CHD and may explain this relationship. We found 25 independent liver-fat associated single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with differing effects on lipoprotein metabolism.

Lack of physical activity (PA) and sarcopenia is a known risk factors for ischemic heart disease (IHD) However, considering their coexistence in the middle-aged and elderly population, the interaction of these two factors remains uncertain. Here, we investigated the interactive effects of PA and sarc Openia on IHD.

Habitual fish oil use was associated with a lower risk of new-onset kidney stones in participants with low or intermediate genetic risk of kidney stones.

It has been suggested that higher triglyceride levels were associated with a lower risk of Alzheimer disease. Study aimed to examine the association of triglycerides with dementia and cognition change in community-dwelling older adults.

Study was based on 194,758 chronic pain participants form UK biobank with a median follow-up of 13.7 years. Participants were categorized into different NSAIDs painkiller regimen groups. Aspirin and paracetamol use was associated with a higher risk of ACD.

Hospital-treated infections increased dementia two-fold. The strongest mediation effect was through the growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) protein. Top 17 proteomic mediators explained collectively 5% of the total effect.

Evidence from population-based studies on whether tea consumption could delay the biological aging process in humans remains limited. Study included 7931 participants aged 30-79 years from the China Multi-Ethnic Cohort (CMEC) Study and 5998 participants aged 37-73 years from UK Biobank (UKB) Tea consumption information was collected through questionnaires.

Study aimed to assess the epidemiological and causal relationships between neuroticism and AF. Of 394,834 participants (mean age 56.3 +/- 8.1 years, 45.9% male), AF occurred in 23,509 (6.0%) during a 10-year follow-up. The risk of incident AF significantly increased in the high neuroticism score group.

Metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease may be a risk factor for AAA. MAFLD is defined as hepatic steatosis plus metabolic abnormality, type 2 diabetes, or overweight/obesity.

Study was based on a cohort of 500 000 participants from UK Biobank. A total of 410 946 participants were followed up for an average of 10.8 years. Compared with the group of participants who had 0-1 h of daily TV time, the group who watched TV for more than 5 h per day had an  HR of 1.37 (95% confidence interval [ CI ]: 1.31-1.44).

Study examined associations in different European regions over a 30-year period. The differences in the risk factor-CVD associations between central Europe, northern Europe, southern Europe, and the UK were generally small.

Genome-wide association studies have identified 240 independent loci associated with type 2 diabetes (T2D) risk, but this knowledge has not advanced precision medicine. We show a significant burden of pathogenic variants in genes linked with monogenic diabetes among people with common T2D, particularly in actionable MODY genes. These results open avenues for future interventions assessing the clinical interest of these pathogenic mutations.

Alcohol consumption is correlated positively with risk for breast cancer in observational studies. The association with epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is unclear. We performed observational Cox regression and Mendelian randomization analyses.

Circulating proteins are vital in human health and disease. They are frequently used as biomarkers for clinical decision-making or as targets for pharmacological intervention. Here, we map and replicate protein quantitative trait loci (pQTL) for 90 cardiovascular proteins in over 30,000 individuals.

Tumor thickness is the strongest predictor of outcome for clinically localized primary melanoma patients. We sought to determine whether there is a heritable genetic contribution to variation in tumor thickness. We found that 26.6% (SE 11.9%, P = 0.0128) of variation is attributable to genome-wide genetic variation. While requiring replication, a chromosome 11 locus was associated.

The desire to train complex machine learning algorithms drives neuroimaging research to use ever-larger datasets. Simple pooling is often ill-advised as selection, measurement, and confounding biases may creep in. In practice, we neither know all potential confounders nor do we have data on them.

A major challenge in genetic association studies is that most associated variants fall in the non-coding part of the human genome. We searched for variants associated with bone mineral density (BMD) by sequencing a subset of the Nord-Tr&#248;ndelag Health Study. One previously unreported variant, LoF mutation in MEPE, was associated with decreased ultradistal forearm BMD and increased osteoporosis and fracture risk.

LDBlockShow is an open source software, for visualizing LD and haplotype blocks from variant call format files. It is time and memory saving. In a test dataset with 100 SNPs from 60 000 subjects, it was at least 10.60 times faster.

Using genetic scores for fasting plasma glucose (FPG GS) and type 2 diabetes (T2D GS), we investigated whether the fasting, 1-hour and 2-hour glucose thresholds from the WHO 2013 criteria for gestational diabetes (GDM) have different implications for genetic susceptibility to raised fasting glucose. We looked at women from the Hyperglycemia and Adverse Pregnancy Outcome (HAPO) and Atlantic Diabetes in Pregnancy (DIP) studies. In HAPO and DIP, the mean FPG GS was higher than controls.

One in four people slept less than age-specific recommendations, but only 5.8% slept outside of the 'acceptable' sleep duration. Among teenagers, 51.5% reported total sleep times (TST) of less than the recommended 8-10 h and 18% report daytime sleepiness. In adults, poor sleep quality (13.3%) and insomnia symptoms (9.6-19.4%) were more prevalent.

High circulating levels of Lp(a) (lipoprotein[a) increase the risk of atherosclerosis and calcific aortic valve disease, affecting millions of patients worldwide. Low-density lipoprotein-targeting therapies do not reduce Lp (a) or risk of aorta disease, which has no available drug therapies. Targeting Lp('a') production and catabolism may provide therapeutic benefit, but little is known about its cellular uptake.

LDpred2 is a widely used Bayesian method for building polygenic scores (PGSs) We present a new version of LDpred2-auto that adds an optional third parameter &#945; to its model, for modeling negative selection. We then validate the inference of these three parameters.

Cancer is an age-related condition, but changes to modifiable lifestyle-related behaviours, including physical activity, could impact risk. Step count is an accessible metric of activity for older adults, but its association with cancer risk remains poorly understood. We investigated the association between accelerometer-measured total activity, step count, and cancer risk.

This study aims to investigate the association between childhood adversity and COVID-19-related hospitalisation and mortality in the UK Biobank. Higher self-reports of childhood adversity were related to greater likelihood of COVID,19- related hospitalisation.

UK Biobank enrolled over 500,000 participants, aged 37-73years, across the UK from 2006 to 2010. During a median follow-up period of 12.0years, 14,492 (3.9%) participants developed acute kidney injury. Overall, the healthy sleep score was significantly inversely associated with the risk of new-onset acute kidneys injury.

Plasma cell neoplasms are a group of hematologic neoplasm that often develop in the elderly population. Relationship between cholesterol levels and hematologist malignancy has been identified in population studies. It is still unclear if there is a relationship between cholesterol Levels and Plasma Cell Neoplasm in European ancestry.

A moderately higher risk of breast cancer was associated with the consumption of processed meat. Higher intake of raw vegetables and fresh fruits, and adherence to a healthy dietary pattern were inversely associated with breast cancer risk.

UK Biobank cohort included 417,253 participants (aged 56.18 +/- 8.09 years) Of whom, 19,243 (4.6%) and 188,219 (45.1%) were considered frail and pre-frail, respectively. During a median of 12.4 years follow-up, 1503 elderly-onset IBD cases (1001 UC, 413 CD, and 89 IBD-Unclassified) were identified. Compared with non-frailty, individuals with frail (HR=1.40, 95 %CI: 1.13-1.73) and pre/frail showed significantly higher risk of IBD.

Evidence on the association between greenness and telomere length (TL) is insufficient, particularly in middle-aged and elderly populations. The modification effect of genetic susceptibility is unknown. We conducted a cross-sectional study among participants in the UK Biobank (2006-2010) Residential greenness was measured by normalized difference vegetation index within 500 m buffer.

Early-life exposure increases health risks throughout an individual's lifetime. Whether early-life risks could accelerate biological aging and elevate late-life mortality and morbidity risks remains unknown. Increased chronological age and healthy lifestyles could mitigate the accelerations of KDM-BA and PhenoAge.

Age at AF diagnosis is associated with risk of incident dementia and its subtypes. Data were analyzed from October to December 2022. Compared with individuals without AF, 30 601 individuals with AF had a higher risk of developing all-cause dementia.

World Cancer Research Fund/American Institute for Cancer Research Cancer Prevention Recommendations are lifestyle-based guidelines which aim to reduce cancer risk. Study investigated associations between an abbreviated score to assess adherence to these Recommendations and the risk of all cancers combined.

Loneliness is associated with morbidity and mortality, including higher risk of neurodegenerative diseases. To our knowledge, no study has examined whether the association between loneliness and detrimental outcomes extends to Parkinson disease (PD) This large cohort study found that loneliness was associated with risk of incident PD across demographic groups.

Study included participants of the UK Biobank who were free of fracture history at enrollment (2006 to 2010) Air pollution measurements included annual averages of air particulate matter (PM 2.5-10), nitrogen oxides (NO 2) and NO x. Participants living in places with the highest quintile of air pollution score had a 15.3% increased risk of fractures. 5.49% of this association was mediated through serum 25(OH)D.

Dietary fiber intake is associated with a lower risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and cancer. It is unknown whether dietary fiber has a beneficial effect on preventing the development of chronic kidney disease (CKD) Using the UK Biobank prospective cohort, 110,412 participants completed at least one dietary questionnaire.

Previous studies suggest a protective role of fruits and vegetables against a variety of diseases such as dementia and depression. We investigated the effect of fruit and vegetable consumption on brain structure. Particularly on grey matter (GM) and white matter (WM) volumes, regional GM volumes and subcortical volumes.

 gray matter atrophy is commonly observed with aging. But it is highly variable, even among healthy people of the same age. Previous studies have reported that risk factors for cardiometabolic diseases are associated with accelerated brain aging. These studies were primarily based on standard correlation analyses.

Vitamin D deficiency is prevalent in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) There are positive synergistic associations of vitamin D deficiency and T2DM with liver-related outcomes. Inversely associated with incident liver disease and related mortality.

Mothers transmit Alzheimer's disease more frequently than fathers. Factors other than female longevity may be at work to promote maternal transmission of AD. Among these are the X chromosome, mitochondrial DNA, and AD comorbidities, especially depression.

Physical activity levels of CVD patients in both China and the UK were lower than that in non-CVD population. The decline in physical activity was more pronounced among CKB and UKB CVD. patients with lower educational levels, current or former smokers or drinkers, and those with other chronic diseases.

This study aims to evaluate the causal effect of sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibition on bone mineral density (BMD), osteoporosis, and fracture risk using genetics. Two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses were performed utilizing two sets of genetic variants as instruments (six and two single-nucleotide polymorphisms [SNPs) associated with SLC5A2 gene expression and glycated hemoglobin A1c levels.

Epistasis is central in many domains of biology, but it has not yet been proven useful for understanding the etiology of complex traits. This is partly because complex-trait epistasis involves polygenic interactions that are poorly captured in current models. To address this gap, we developed a model called Epistasis Factor Analysis (EFA)

Integrated analyses of plasma proteomic and genetic markers in prospective studies can clarify the causal relevance of proteins. The purpose of this study was to examine associations of proteomics and genetics data with IHD in population studies.

Analysis was based on 117,252 participants from the U.K. Biobank. Habitual visual acuity was measured by a standardized logarithmic chart. Incident hospitalized anxiety recorded using longitudinal linkage with hospital inpatient data.

Heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) is a monogenic disorder characterized by increased circulating low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and accelerated atherosclerosis. Even among this high-risk group, prior studies note considerable variability in risk of coronary artery disease (CAD)

Intimate partner violence and child maltreatment have been separately associated with asthma in adults. No study has concurrently examined of adulthood adverse events (including, but not limited to, intimate partner violence) and child Maltreatment on asthma in Adults. This was a cross-sectional study of adulthood adverse events and child maltreatment on current asthma in 87,891 adults 40-69 years old who participated in the UK Biobank.

Study included 458,181 participants free of baseline dementia in the UK Biobank (2006-2021) 11 digestive system diseases showed significant associations with an increased risk of dementia. The associations appeared to be stronger for cirrhosis and irritable bowel syndrome.

CluStrat is a method to correct for population structure in polygenic adaptation of height in Europeans. It leverages the linkage disequilibrium induced distances between genetic markers. In simulation studies, our method outperforms existing methods in detecting true causal variants.

In clinical practice, the co-existence of endometriosis and gastrointestinal symptoms is often observed. Using large-scale datasets, we report a genetic correlation between the two conditions. Higher use of IBS, GORD, and PUD medications in women with endometiosis and higher use of hormone therapies support theCo-occurrence of these conditions.

Study included a total of 87 885 participants (median follow-up of 9.1 years, 54% female) without dementia at baseline from the UK Biobank. A total of 249 plasma metabolites were measured using nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy at baseline. Cholesteryl esters in S-HDL were associated with lower risk of VD but not AD.

UK Biobank participants aged 38 to 70 years without cardiovascular disease were included. The primary outcome was CHD, which was ascertained using hospital and death records. We observed that age at job initiation was inversely associated with CHD.

Perturbation of lipid homoeostasis is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD) We aimed to identify genetic variants affecting lipid levels, and thereby risk of CVD, in Greenlanders. Genome-wide association studies of six blood lipids, triglycerides, LDL-cholesterol, HDL-ch cholesterol, total cholesterol, and apolipoproteins A1 and B were performed.

Study looked at association between cardiovascular health (CVH) and incident depression and anxiety. CVH was defined by the American Heart Association's Life's Essential 8 (LE8) score. Higher CVH, evaluated by LE8 score, is strongly associated with a lower risk of incident depression.

Study included 502,369 participants from the UK Biobank. Having IBD was associated with an increased risk of death from all causes. We observed elevated breast cancer mortality rates for individuals with Crohn's disease.

Most people with autosomal dominant familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) remain undetected. We estimated the screening performance of different low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) cut-offs to select adults for DNA sequencing. We identified 488 individuals with an FH-causing variant and 139 951 without (prevalence 1 in 288) An LDL-C cut-off of >4.8 mmol/L had a stage 1 detection rate (sensitivity) of 40% (95% CI 36 to 44%) for a false-positive rate of 10%.

Adiponectin may play an important protective role in heart failure and associated cardiovascular diseases. We hypothesized that plasma adiponect in is associated observationally and causally, genetically with risk of heart failure, atrial fibrillation, aortic valve stenosis, and myocardial infarction. In observational analyses modelled linearly, a 1 unit log-transformed higher plasma adip onectin was associated with a hazard ratio of 1.51.

Pericardial adipose tissue (PAT) is the visceral tissue compartment surrounding the heart. We identify causal associations between PAT and adverse cardiac magnetic resonance imaging measures of cardiac structure and function. Genetically predicted differences in PAT were causally associated with adverse left ventricular remodeling.

Admixed individuals offer unique opportunities for addressing limited transferability in polygenic scores (PGSs) We present inclusive PGS (iPGS), which captures ancestry-shared genetic effects. When iPGS is applied to n = 237,055 ancestry-diverse individuals in the UK Biobank, it shows the greatest improvements in Africans by 48.9% on average.

The prospective association between vitamin D and obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) remains uncertain. We aimed to assess the association between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D), a major circulating form of vitamin D, and new-onset OSA.

Caffeine is the most widely consumed psychostimulant and is associated with lower risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) Whether these associations are causal remains unknown. This study aimed to identify genetic variants associated with caffeine intake, and to investigate evidence for causal links with CAD or T2DM.

White matter hyperintensities (WMH) are the most common brain-imaging feature of cerebral small vessel disease (SVD) hypertension is the main known risk factor. We identify 27 genome-wide loci for WMH-volume in a cohort of 50,970 older individuals. Aggregated WMH risk variants were associated with altered white matter integrity.

The human proteome is a crucial intermediate between complex diseases and their genetic and environmental components. It is an important source of drug development targets and biomarkers. We comprehensively assess the genetic architecture of 257 circulating protein biomarkers of cardiometabolic relevance through high-depth whole-genome sequencing.

Host-mediated lung inflammation is present1, and drives mortality in the critical illness caused by coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) Host genetic variants associated with critical illness may identify mechanistic targets for therapeutic development.

Genome-wide association study (GWAS) of vegetarianism in 367,198 participants from UK Biobank. We identified one locus, rs10189138, near the vaccinia related kinase 2 gene, significantly associated with vegetarianism.

Drugs targeting dyslipidemia and cardiovascular disease may increase the risk of fatty liver disease and other metabolic disorders. To identify potential novel CVD drug targets without these adverse effects, we perform genome-wide analyses of participants in the HUNT Study in Norway. We identify 76 presumed causal protein-altering variants associated with one or more CVD- or liver-related blood traits.

Serum urate has been implicated in hypertension and cardiovascular disease, but it is not known whether it is exerting a causal effect. We performed Mendelian randomization analysis using data from UK Biobank, Million Veterans Program and genome-wide association study consortia. Every 1-SD increase in genetically predicted serum urate was associated with an increased risk of coronary heart disease.

The relationship between depression and vitamin D deficiency is complex, with evidence mostly from studies affected by confounding and reverse causality. We examined the causality and direction of the relationship between 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) and depression in bi-directional Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses using information from up to 307,618 white British participants.

Mitochondrial (MT) dysfunction is a hallmark of aging and has been associated with most aging-related diseases. Little is known about aging, lifestyle and genetic factors influencing mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) abundance. mtDNA abundance was significantly elevated in women compared to men.

Study aimed to investigate the risk of various short-term comorbidities (within one month) and long-term sequelae after COVID-19 infection. Participants were older, male, overweight/obese, ever-smoked, and hospitalized. Only 6 high-risk sequelae were observed after one month.

Data from the UK Biobank cohort were analyzed. Longer-than-recommended sleep duration was associated with lower overall grey and white matter volumes. Sleeping less than recommended is distinctly associated with low cortical surface areas.

Study examined associations of fish and fish oil consumption with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) incidence. 1554 incident IBD cases were identified during an average follow-up of 11.8 years. Compared with participants who never ate oily fish, those having  1 serving/wk had 9% (hazard ratio [HR], 0.91; 95% confidence interval [CI, 0.77-1.08) lower risks of IBD.

Study looked at 11 974 White European UK Biobank participants with type 2 diabetes, aged 40-70 years. Sarcopenia was defined based on the European Working Group on Sarc Openia in Older People. Outcomes included CVD, stroke, heart failure (HF) and myocardial infarction (MI)

Migraine is a complex neurovascular disease with a range of severity and symptoms. Here we combine large GWAS datasets from six European populations to study the main migraine subtypes, migraine with aura (MA) and migraine without aura (MO) We identified four new MA-associated variants (in PRRT2, PALMD, ABO and LRRK2) and classified 13 MO- associated variants.

It is becoming increasingly common for studies to fit single-shell diffusion MRI data to a two-compartment model. The fraction of the isotropic compartment ( f ) is sensitive to white matter conditions and pathologies.

Biological age captures physiological deterioration better than chronological age. Blood-based biomarkers have been identified as suitable candidates for biological age estimation. Biological age is estimated as the equivalent age within the same-sex population which corresponds to an individual's mortality risk.

In the UK, cancer screening invitations are based on general practice (GP) registrations. We hypothesize that GP electronic medical records (EMR) can be utilised to calculate a lung cancer risk score with good accuracy.

Hypertension is a known risk factor for subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) The aim of this study was to describe the relationship between blood pressure and SAH using a large cohort study and perform a meta-analysis of the published literature.

Abdominal organ segmentation from CT and MRI is an essential prerequisite for surgical planning and computer-aided navigation systems. It is challenging due to the high variability in the shape, size, and position of abdominal organs. template-based surface extraction methods have shown promising advances for direct mesh reconstruction from volumetric scans.

High BMI and waist circumference (WC) were associated with increased risks of retinopathy, nephropathy and peripheral neuropathy in the UK Biobank cohort. The effect sizes remained significant after adjustment for glycated hemoglobin. Weight control might modify the risks of these complications independently of glycemic control.

We show a null association between these indices and incident inflammatory bowel disease. The need to account for the effects of food processing as well as the raw ingredients is emphasized as a confounding variable.

The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) are thought to have important roles in loneliness (feeling of social isolation/exclusion) experience or regulation. Study analyzed link between loneliness and gray matter volumes (GMVs) in the ACC and right VLPFC among 1,005 patients with MDD and 7,247 healthy controls (HCs)

Anemia was associated with faster declines in global cognition. Anemia accelerated dementia onset by 1.53 years. Risk of dementia tended to be higher in people with both anemia and high CRP.

Five comorbidity clusters were identified in a population of 10 873 people with psoriasis. Genetically predicted coronary artery disease (CAD) is possibly associated with an increased risk of Psoriasis, altering our prior knowledge.

White matter hyperintensities (WMH) are an imaging marker of cerebrovascular pathologies and predictor of cognitive impairment. The role of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes in WMH pathophysiology remains unexplored. Four HLA genes showed an association with reduced WMH volume. Carrying DQB1*02:01 and C*07:01 was associated with higher cognitive function, but no association with dementia was found.

Co-occurrence of cardiometabolic diseases (CMDs) is increasingly prevalent and has been associated with an additive risk of dementia in older adults. The extent to which this risk can be offset by a healthy lifestyle is unknown. We aimed to examine associations of CMDs and lifestyle with incident dementia and related brain structural changes.

 GWAS of hematuria in the UK Biobank identified 6 loci, some of which overlap with loci for albuminuria suggesting pleiotropy. eGFR was lower in cases compared to controls, with the exception of the comparison in females using CKD-EPI after age adjustment.

Using the UK Biobank, we examine associations of four individual healthy dietary scores with the risk of 48 individual chronic diseases. Higher Alternate Mediterranean Diet score is associated with a lower risk of 32 (all 8 cardiometabolic disorders, 3 out of 10 types of cancers, 7 out of10 psychological/neurological disorders, 5 out of 6 digestive disorders)

The association between serum cystatin C level and vascular outcomes has not been fully elucidated in diabetes and is unclear in prediabetes. A total of 85,371 participants with predi diabetes and diabetes were included with a 14-year follow-up. The highest cyStatin C quartile had increased risks of all-cause (hazard ratio [HR], 2.02; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.86-2.19)

Thyroid hormones play a critical role in regulation of multiple physiological functions. Thyroid dysfunction is associated with substantial morbidity. We identify 158 novel genetic associations, more than doubling the number of known associations with TSH.

Mobile phone use was significantly associated with higher risks of incident overall cancer. Nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC) and urinary tract cancer (HR, 1.18) were also linked to phone use.

Study aimed to investigate the joint association of asthma and sleep duration with cardiovascular disease (CVD) and mortality risk. Participants with asthma and short sleep duration showed increased risk of CVD and all-cause mortality.

 venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a major complication in IBD patients. VTE is often underappreciated with limited tools for risk stratification. Incident VTE was followed for 8465 IBD Patients in the UK Biobank.

Ultra-processed food (UPF) intake has been positively associated with obesity and diabetes. The relationship between UPF intake and liver health has been scarcely studied. We aimed to evaluate the association of UPF with risk of adverse liver outcomes including nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

The role of anxiety in the pathway to chronic pain is unclear. Potentially, inflammatory biomarkers such as C-reactive protein (CRP) are involved. Data from 24,172 adults who participated in the UK Biobank were used to conduct Poisson regressions to assess relationships between ACEs, anxiety, and chronic pain.

Bassoon (BSN) is a component of a hetero-dimeric presynaptic cytomatrix protein that orchestrates neurotransmitter release. Heterozygous missense variants in BSN have previously been associated with neurodegenerative disorders in humans. We found that rare heterozygous predicted loss of function (pLoF) variants are associated with higher BMI in the UK biobank cohort.

17,603 UK Biobank participants underwent cholecystectomy, and 35,206 matched controls were included in this study. Within a median follow-up period of 13.56 years, 3,217 participants were diagnosed with osteoporosis. After adjustment for relevant confounders, prior choleCystectomy was associated with a 1.21 times higher risk of osteop orosis in women.

Sex differences in human brain structure and function are important. They are likely to be relevant to male-female differences in behavior and in mental health. To analyse sex differences in cortical function, functional connectivity was measured in 36,531 participants (53% female)

FactorGo is a scalable variational factor analysis model to identify and characterize pleiotropic components using biobank GWAS summary data. In extensive simulations, we observe that FactorGo outperforms the state-of-the-art (model-free) approach tSVD. FactorGo improves our understanding of shared etiologies across thousands of GWASs.

TV-watching, driving and non-occupational computer using were all positively associated with the risk of new-onset kidney stones. Glucosamine use was associated with a lower risk of kidney stones in participants with total sedentary time.

Evidence regarding the role of physical frailty in cancer-related outcomes is limited. We aimed to examine the association of frailty with cancer incidence and mortality risk. The study included 348,144 participants free of cancer at baseline from the UK Biobank.

Metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) is a newly defined condition encompassing hepatic steatosis and metabolic dysfunction. The relationship between MAFLD and multi-system diseases remains unclear. We conducted a disease trajectory analysis to map the key pathways linking MAFLd to various health conditions.

In the UK Biobank, during a median follow-up of 12.13 years, 3535 (2.01%) participants developed CKD. Compared with tea non-consumers, the risk of new-onset CKD was significantly lower in unsweetened tea consumers (hazard ratio (HR) = 0.84, 95% confidence interval (CI) =0.76-0.93)

Using diffusion-weighted MRI from &#8764;30,000 UK Biobank participants, we test the hypothesis that obesity (waist-to-hip ratio, WHR) is associated with regional differences in two micro-structural MRI metrics. We observed significant associations with obesity in two coupled but distinct brain systems.

The fat-to-muscle mass ratio (FMR) has been proposed as a meaningful indicator of risk of obesity. This study investigated the associations between total and regional FMR and incident breast/ovarian cancer.

Back pain is a major contributor to disability worldwide, with heritability estimated at 40-60%. Less than half of the heritability is explained by common genetic variants identified by genome-wide association studies. More powerful methods and rare and ultra-rare variant analysis may offer additional insight.

Most signals in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of complex traits implicate noncoding genetic variants with putative gene regulatory effects. Currently identified regulatory variants, notably expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs), explain only a small fraction of GWAS signals. We show that GWAS and cis- eQTL hits are systematically different.

Exercise-induced premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) in asymptomatic individuals remain unclear. Study aimed to assess association between PVC burdens during submaximal exercise and major adverse cardiovascular events (MI/HF/LTVA)

Study aimed to explore the potential interaction between dietary intake and genetics on incident colorectal cancer (CRC) We analyzed prospective cohort data of 374,004 participants who were free of any cancers at enrollment in UK Biobank.

500,207 UK Biobank participants (54.5% women, mean age 56.5 years) without prior hospitalisation of PAD at baseline were included. Risk factors included blood pressure, smoking, diabetes, lipids, adiposity, history of stroke or myocardial infarction (MI), socioeconomic status, kidney function, C-reactive protein, and alcohol consumption.

Study looked at the association between periodontal diseases, airflow limitation and incident chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) The cross-sectional study involved 495,610 participants. The cohort study included 379,266 participants.

There is a research gap between genetic predisposition, socioeconomic factors, and their interactions on thyroid tumorigenesis. Three index loci of telomerase reverse transcriptase ( TERT ) were found to be significantly related to incident TCa. High genetic risk, low household income, and high education level were independent risk factors.

Diabetes increases the risk of cirrhosis and HCC. We aimed to assess such associations given different diabetes statuses. We included 449,497 participants in the UK Biobank cohort. Compared with normoglycemia, having  

Inverse associations between dietary fiber (DF) and colorectal cancer risk are well-established. However, evidence is limited in relation to other cancer sites. This study aimed to evaluate the associations between total and source-specific partial DF and risk of 17 specific cancers and all cancers combined.

Cohort analyses included 287 868 participants from the UK Biobank Study. Compared with participants without MetS, those with MetS had a higher risk of COPD (HR 1.24, 95% CI 1.17-1.32) Those with high genetic predisposition had a 17% increased risk of developing COPD.

Infection burden (IB), although linked to neurodegeneration, including Alzheimer's Disease (AD), has not been examined against neurite orientation, dispersion, and density imaging (NODDI) measures. Among 38,803 UK Biobank adults (Age:40-70 years), we tested associations of total IB and hospital-treated IB with NODDI measures.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex genetic disease, and variants identified through genome-wide association studies (GWAS) explain only part of its heritability. Epistasis has been proposed as a major contributor to this 'missing heritability' We use VariantSpark, a machine learning approach to GWAS, and BitEpi, a tool for epistasis detection, to identify AD associated variants and interactions.

 Digestive disorders are a significant contributor to the global burden of disease and seriously affect human quality of life. Research has already confirmed the presence of pleiotropic genetic loci among digestive disorders. However, most cross-phenotype studies within the digestive tract system have been limited to a few traits.

Chronic pain is at epidemic proportions in the United States. The genetic relationship among these traits remains poorly understood. We conducted a joint analysis of genome-wide association study summary statistics from seventeen pain susceptibility traits in the UK Biobank.

Whether serum vitamin D mediate vascular diseases in prediabetic populations remains unclear. This study aimed to determine the associations between circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] levels and vitamin D receptor (VDR) polymorphisms among adults with prediabetes.

Study included 98,564 participants free of IBS in the UK biobank. 8770 (8.9%) participants had a depression diagnosis at baseline. 224 cases of incident IBS were identified in patients with depression (2.0 per 1000 person-years)

 interpretability in Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) has been explored to some extent in general in computer vision. We propose an interpretable attention module (IAM) that explains the relevance of the input features to the classification task on a GNN Model. We show the application of our model on two publicly available datasets, Tadpole and the UK Biobank.

438,307 participants from the UK Biobank who completed the questionnaire on the frequency of adding salt to foods and were free of vascular disease at baseline were enrolled. Primary outcomes included incident microvascular, cerebrovascular and cardiovascular diseases. Secondary outcomes included first occurrence of fatal and non-fatal vascular diseases.

We mapped functional and structural brain networks for more than 40,000 UK Biobank participants. Structural connectivity was estimated with tractography and diffusion MRI. Resting-state functional MRI was used to infer regional functional connectivity. We provide high-quality structural and functional connectomes for multiple parcellation granularities.

Constrained source-based morphometry (constrained SBM) is a semi-blind extension of SBM. It enables the extraction of maximally independent reference-alike sources using the constrained independent component analysis (ICA) approach. This also allows us to implement a federated version of constrained SBM to allow analysis of data that is not locally accessible.

Long-term exposure to air pollutants was associated with an elevated risk of allergic rhinitis. Participants with high air pollution combined with high genetic risk showed the highest risk of AR.

The relationship between liver dysfunction and dementia has been researched extensively but remains poorly understood. 431 699 participants with a mean of 8.65 (standard deviation [SD] 2.61) years of follow-up were included from the UK Biobank. We observed that per SD decreases in alanine transaminase (ALT) were significantly associated with a higher risk of incident ACD.

We examined associations between family history of stroke and heart disease with incident stroke and myocardial infarction (MI) in 495 640 UK Biobank participants stratified by childhood adoption status (5747 adoptees) Polygenic risk scores showed strong disease-specific associations in both groups. Family history of heart disease represents predominantly genetic risk.

Single nucleotide polymorphisms in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) region in both maternal and fetal genomes have been robustly associated with birthweight (BW) in previous genetic association studies. No study to date has partitioned the association between BW and classical HLA alleles into maternal and Fetal components. We used structural equation modelling (SEM) to estimate the maternal andfetal effects of classical Hla alleles on BW.

Study aimed to quantify the dose-response association and the minimal effective dose of leisure-time physical activity (PA) to prevent mortality and cardiovascular disease in adults with type 2 diabetes. Cross-country comparison of 2 prospective cohort studies including 14,913 and 17,457 population-based adults withtype 2 diabetes from UK and China.

Frailty combines biological ageing, comorbidity and psychosocial factors and can predict adverse health outcomes. Emerging evidence indicates that frailty is higher in individuals with SMI than in the general population. The prevalence ratio was between 3 and 18 times higher than in those without SMI.

It is unclear whether metabolic and inflammatory factors mediate the association between severe sleep apnea and coronary heart disease (CHD) In UK Biobank, 213 442 CHD-free adults were followed up for 15 years to detect incident CHD. The strongest indirect association was for dyslipidemia.

Raynaud's phenomenon (RP) is a common vasospastic disorder that causes severe pain and ulcers. Despite its high reported heritability, no causal genes have been robustly identified. We identified three unreported genomic regions associated with the risk of RP.

Genetic and lifestyle factors contribute to the pathogenesis of bladder cancer. The extent to which the increased genetic risk can be mitigated by adhering to a healthy lifestyle remains unclear. We aimed to investigate the association of combined lifestyle factors with bladder cancer risk within genetic risk groups.

Genome-wide association studies have identified numerous genetic variants (single-nucleotide polymorphisms [SNPs] associated with BC. The effects of SNPs are combined into a polygenic risk score (PRS) as a risk prediction tool. The PRS can stratify individuals with more than a 3-fold risk increase.

Evidence supporting cardiovascular diseases could increase the risk of dementia remains fragmented. A comprehensive study to illuminate the distinctive associations across different dementia types is still lacking. Study sought to determine the clinical validity of Framingham General Cardiovascular Risk Score (FGCRS)

Happiness is a fundamental human affective trait, but its biological basis is not well understood. We construct LDpred-inf polygenic scores of a general happiness measure in 2 cohorts. We detected significant (p.FDR) associations between genetic scores for happiness and brain structure in ABCD and UK Biobank.

Despite development of vaccines to prevent SARS-CoV-2 infection, treatment of critically ill COVID-19 patients remains an important goal. In principle, genome-wide association studies (GWASs) provide a shortcut to the clinical evidence needed to repurpose existing drugs. genes identified frequently lack a causal disease link.

Study looked at relationship between blood glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and cerebral cortical thickness (CT) Results were negative, emerging negatively within the prediabetic range (39.6 mmol/mol) Loci implicated mitochondrial maintenance and ATP generation.

Permutational multivariate analysis of variance (PERMANOVA) offers a powerful non-parametric approach. However, it relies on permutations to assess significance, which hinders the analysis of large datasets. Here, we derive the limiting null distribution of the PERMANOVA test statistic.

A total of 402,982 participants from UK Biobank were analyzed. 13,120 incident cases of T2D were documented. Compared with participants who "never/rarely" added salt to foods, the adjusted HRs were 1.11, 1.18, and 1.28.

Different ages for diagnosis of diabetes have diverse effects on risks of cardiovascular disease, dementia, and mortality, but there is little evidence of cancer. This study investigated the relationship between diabetes at different diagnostic ages and risks of cancer incidence and mortality in people aged 37-73 years.

Deep generative models, including Evolutionary model of Variant Effect (EVE), Evolutionary Scale Modeling (ESM), and AlphaFold 2 (AF2), have enabled significant progress in the prediction of protein structure and function. ESM and EVE directly estimate the likelihood of a variant sequence but are purely data-driven and challenging to interpret.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterised by the accumulation of lipid droplets (LDs) within hepatocytes. Perilipin 2 (PLIN2) is the most abundant protein in hepatic LDs and its expression correlates with intracellular lipid accumulation. A recently discovered PLIN2 coding variant, Ser251Pro (rs35568725), was found to promote accumulation of small LDs in embryonic kidney cells. In this study, we investigate the role of  PLin2 -Ser251Pro on hepaticLD metabolism in vivo and research the metabolic phenotypes associated with this variant in humans.

Life's Essential 8 composite measure consists of four health behaviours (diet, physical activity, nicotine exposure, and sleep) and four health factors (body mass index, non-high density lipoprotein cholesterol, blood glucose, and blood pressure) In the UK Biobank, 170,726 participants free of 44 common NCDs at baseline were included.

Study included 23,014 individuals without neurodegenerative diseases from the UK Biobank. 3 years of annual follow-up data of 2197 individuals from a Chinese cohort. Poor renal function was associated with a lower baseline GCIPL thickness in the UK population and a faster decline rate in Chinese participants. However, the detailed underlying mechanisms still need further exploration.

UK Biobank is a prospective study of 0.5 million adults. Analyses were restricted to 89 422 participants with plasma lipoprotein and apolipoprotein measures from Nightingale nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and without CHD at baseline. CHD risk was positively associated with concentrations of very-low-density lipoproteins.

Set-based association analyses for rare variants are powerful tools that capture some of the missing heritability in trait association studies. We extend the convex-optimized SKAT (cSKAT) test set procedure which learns from data the optimal convex combination of kernels. We show that the resulting optimization problem is a quadratic programming problem that can be solved with no additional cost compared to cSKAT.

Body mass index (BMI; weight (kg)/height (m)2) is commonly used to measure general adiposity. Evidence of its appropriateness for males and females remains inconsistent. We aimed to identify the most appropriate sex-specific power value that height should be raised to.

Cardiomyopathies (CMs) are genetic diseases with complex etiologies for which an increasing number of recessive associations have been proposed. We classify 18 genes with robust recessive association with CMs, largely characterized by dilated phenotypes, early disease onset and severe outcomes. Several of these genes have monoallelic association with disease outcomes and cardiac traits.

Cancer survivors are less likely than comparably aged individuals without a cancer history to develop Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) We investigated associations between cancer history and five structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) markers for ADRD risk. Cancer history was associated with smaller mean hippocampal volume.

The analysis of longitudinal data from electronic health records (EHRs) has the potential to improve clinical diagnoses and enable personalized medicine. Here we introduce an age-dependent topic modeling (ATM) method that provides a low-rank representation of longitudinal records of hundreds of distinct diseases in large EHR datasets.

Metformin use was associated with decreased urate levels, risk of hyperuricaemia and incident gout in patients with diabetes. Genetically proxied averaged HbA1c-lowering effects of metformin targets were associated with reduced urate. Body mass index significantly mediated this association.

Low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol have been associated with higher rates and severity of infection. Alterations in inflammatory mediators and infection are associated with alterations in HDL cholesterol. We explored the role of IL-6 signalling as a potential causal driver of changes in HDL subclasses.

Regular stair use can contribute to increasing physical activity in the population. Climbing stairs >15 times per day was associated with a lower risk of 8 of the 9 outcomes analyzed than not using stairs. Findings were similar for mortality outcomes, with the hazard ratios ranging from 0.82 to 0.92.

There are 78 loci associated with Parkinson's disease in the most recent genome-wide association study (GWAS) We nominated candidate genes in each locus and identified novel pathways. Specific common coding variants in SPNS1 and MLX may be involved.

Grip strength has prognostic value for aging-related health outcomes. Whether associations of grip strength with the risk of dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD) vary by the genetic risk of AD and related dementias (ADD) is unknown.

The relationship between adiposity and grip strength (GS) is complex. We investigated whether one pathway through which adiposity affects GS was via chronic inflammation. 367,583 UK Biobank participants had body mass index (BMI), waist-hip-ratio (WHR), C-reactive protein (CRP) and GS data.

Low heart rate variability (HRV) has been widely reported as a predictor for increased mortality. However, the molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. This study aimed to identify novel genetic loci associated with HRV and assess the association of phenotypic HRV with mortality.

CYP2A6, a genetically variable enzyme, inactivates nicotine, activates carcinogens, and metabolizes many pharmaceuticals. This phenome-wide association study examined associations between a reconstructed version of our weighted genetic risk score (wGRS) and diseases in the UK Biobank (N = 395 887)

Previous studies have shown that brain volume is negatively associated with cigarette smoking. We examined the relationship between a history of daily smoking and brain volumes. A history of heavier smoking was associated with a greater decrease in brain volume. A polygenic risk score for smoking initiation was strongly associated with daily smoking.

Few studies have investigated the joint effects of sleep traits on the risk of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) No previous study has used factorial Mendelian randomization (MR) which may reduce confounding, reverse causation, and measurement error. It is prudent to study joint effects using robust methods to propose sleep-targeted interventions.

Fat distribution pattern could help determine cardiometabolic risk profile. This study aimed to evaluate the association of balance/imbalance between visceral adipose tissue (VAT), abdominal subcutaneous tissue (aSAT), and liver fat (LF) in the UK Biobank prospective cohort study.

Rare pathogenic variants in DCM-associated genes impact left ventricular remodelling and outcomes in stable CAD. NI-LGE is associated with adverse remodelling but is not an independent predictor of outcome.

Sex-stratified genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of body fat percentage (BFPAdj) were performed in white British individuals from the UK Biobank. Loci associated with testosterone or sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) were excluded to avoid collider bias. We investigated association of BFPAdJ loci with high density cholesterol (HDL), triglyceride (TG), type 2 diabetes (T2D), coronary artery disease (CAD) using publicly available data.

There is mounting evidence that the Mediterranean diet prevents type 2 diabetes. Little is known about the role of Mediterranean lifestyles other than diet and among non-Mediterranean populations. This work aimed to examine the association between a comprehensive Mediterranean-type lifestyle andtype 2 diabetes incidence in a British adult population.

The Pharma Proteomics Project is a precompetitive biopharmaceutical consortium characterizing the plasma proteomic profiles of 54,219 UK Biobank participants. We present comprehensive protein quantitative trait locus (pQTL) mapping of 2,923 proteins that identifies 14,287 primary genetic associations. We demonstrate the utility of these data for drug discovery by extending the genetic proxied effects of protein targets, such as PCSK9.

 Integrating human genomics and proteomics can help identify clinical biomarkers and discover drug targets. Previous studies have focused on common variation via genome-wide association studies. Here we identify associations between rare protein-coding variants and 2,923 plasma protein abundances measured in 49,736 UK Biobank individuals.

Study examined whether and to what extent aging mediates associations of unhealthy lifestyles with adverse health outcomes. Data were from 405,944 adults (40-69 years) from UK Biobank (UKB) and 9972 adults (20-84 years)  from US National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) An unhealthy lifestyles score (range: 0-5) was constructed based on five factors.

A substantial body of evidence points to the heritability of dietary preferences. We identified one SNP on chromosome 18 that is associated with vegetarianism at the genome-wide significant level. Four genes are associated with rs72884519: TMEM241, RIOK3, NPC1, and RMC1.

High-throughput proteomics platforms measure thousands of proteins in plasma combined with genomic and phenotypic information. We performed association studies of Olink Explore 3072 data generated by the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project on plasma samples from more than 50,000 participants. We found modest correlation between the two platforms.

Gut hormone ghrelin is an early marker of future risk of developing gastrointestinal cancer. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) to investigate the possible causal association. The study found associations between multiple genetic variants within +/-200kb of the GHRL gene and plasma ghrel in.

There are several established biomarkers for coronary heart disease (CHD) It is of high interest to determine how a combined polygenic risk score (PRS) of CHD-associated biomarkers can further improve genetic prediction. We developed CHDBioPRS, combining BioPRS with PRS ofCHD in the UK Biobank and tested it on FinnGen.

Male-pattern baldness (MPB) is related to dysregulation of androgens such as testosterone. A previously observed relationship between MPB and skin cancer may be due to greater exposure to ultraviolet radiation or indicate a role for androgenic pathways in the pathogenesis of skin cancers.

Ensemble machine learning could support the development of highly parsimonious prediction models that maintain the performance of more complex models. The main limitation of this study is that the models have not been validated outside of UK and US cohorts.

Despite the known benefits of data-driven approaches, the lack of approaches for identifying functional neuroimaging patterns that capture both individual variations and inter-subject correspondence limits the clinical utility of rsfMRI and its application to single-subject analyses. Here, we identify replicable multi-spatial-scale canonical intrinsic connectivity network (ICN) templates via the use of multi-model-order independent component analysis (ICA) We also study the feasibility of estimating subject-specific ICNs via spatially constrained ICA.

Kidney stone disease affects approximately 10% of individuals in their lifetime and is frequently recurrent. The disease is linked to obesity, but the mechanisms mediating this association are uncertain. Using conventional and genetic epidemiological techniques, we demonstrate that general and central adiposity are independently associated with kidney stone disease.

Ultra-processed food (UPF) is a popular supplement in the UK and other developed countries. Whether UPF intake is associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) remains unclear. We aimed to examine the association between UPF consumption and COPD incidence and explore the potential mediating effects of COPD-related biomarkers.

Vasomotor symptoms (VMS) can often significantly impact women's quality of life at menopause. Previous genetic studies implicate the TACR3 gene locus that encodes NK3R. We investigated the genetic basis of VMS by analysing health records. Using genomics we demonstrate changes in genetic associations with HRT use.

NAFLD and metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) are important risk factors of chronic kidney disease (CKD) Whether adherence to a healthy lifestyle can modify these effects remain unknown. This study aimed to evaluate the modification effects of healthy lifestyle on the associations among NAFLD, MAFLd, and the risk of CKD.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) risk varies widely in the population at average risk without a family history. There are no established routines for translating this variation into personalized starting ages of screening. This cohort study included participants in the UK Biobank study recruited in England, Wales, and Scotland.

Hearing loss is a modifiable risk factor for dementia. However, it is unknown whether risk differs by sex. Women with hearing loss show greater risk of dementia and brain atrophy. Men with poor hearing did not have increased risk.

Calcium channel blocker (CCB) use has been associated with an increased risk of glaucoma in exploratory studies. This population-based cross-sectional study included UK Biobank participants with complete data from 2006-2010. The primary outcome measures included glau coma status, corneal-compensated IOP, and 2 OCT-derived inner retinal thickness parameters. After adjustment for key sociodemographic, medical, anthropometric, and lifestyle factors, use of CCBs (but not other antihypertensive agents) was associated with greater odds of glauxcoma.

This retrospective cohort study analyzed all available MAS cases from medical centers in the US and Europe. Prevalence of MAS ranged from 1 in 170 503 in Geisinger MyCode to 1 in 39 149 in UK Biobank. Brain neoplasms (4 of 12) and schwannomas (3 of 12, 25%) were the most common malignant and benign neural tumors.

Population-based prospective observational study used summary-level data mainly from the UK Biobank and FinnGen. Mendelian randomization analysis was conducted using the inverse variance-weighted method. Genetically predicted high liver MRI PDFF was associated with increased risks of malignant liver neoplasm.

Intermittent non-exercise physical activity was associated with lower mortality and MACE. Compared with bouts of less than 1 min, mortality risk was lower for bouts of 1 min to less than 3 min (hazard ratio [HR] 0.66 [0.53-0.81])

The objective was to assess whether presarcopenia and sarcopenia are associated with an increase in fracture risk. A total of 387,025 participants (women 54.4%; median age 58.0 years) were included. 18,300 (4.7%) participants were diagnosed with at least one incident fracture. Presarcopenic (subgroups 1 and 2) and sarc Openic status were significantly associated with a higher risk of fracture.

Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are known to perform important regulatory functions in lipid metabolism. Large-scale whole-genome sequencing studies and new statistical methods for variant set tests now provide an opportunity to assess more associations between rare variants in lncRNA genes and complex traits across the genome.

Mitochondria carry their own circular genome and disruption of the mitochondrial genome is associated with various aging-related diseases. Unlike the nuclear genome, mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) can be present at 1000 s to 10,000 s copies in somatic cells. mtDNA variants may exist in a state of heteroplasmy, where only a fraction of the DNA molecules harbors a particular variant.

We applied structural equation modeling to conduct a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of the general factor measured by a neuroticism questionnaire administered to &#8764;380,000 participants in the UK Biobank. Enriched gene sets pointed to an underlying biological basis associated with brain development, synaptic function and behaviors in mice indicative of fear and anxiety.

A total of 492,998 individuals free of IBD recruited from 2006 to 2010 in the UK Biobank were included in our study. During a median follow-up of 12.5 years, we documented 2954 incident IBD cases (915 Crohn's disease [CD] and 2039 ulcerative colitis) After adjustment for important confounders, body mass index (HR) highest quintile vs. lowest quintile [Q1] = 1.18, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.04-1.32; P-trend = 0.006.

Study included 381 179 participants without coronary heart disease, stroke, atrial fibrillation, or heart failure at baseline. Over a median follow-up of 12.1 years, 41 910 participants developed FCVD, 7302 further developed CVM, and 20 707 died. Findings suggest that improving sleep behaviors might be helpful for the primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular diseases.

In 391,652 UK Biobank participants recruited in 2006-2010, 22,413 deaths occurred. Compared to slow walkers, brisk SRWP was associated with reduced cancer (smallest reduction), CVD, and other (largest) causes of death.

Using whole-genome data of 3955 of Darwin's finches on the Gal&#225;pagos Island of Daphne Major, we identified six loci of large effect that explain 45% of the variation in the highly heritable beak size of Geospiza fortis. The major locus is a supergene comprising four genes. Abrupt changes in allele frequencies at the loci accompanied a strong change in beakSize caused by natural selection during a drought.

Cardiometabolic disease is the leading cause of death worldwide. Proteins are crucial components in biological pathways dysregulated in disease states. Identifying genetic components that influence circulating protein levels may lead to the discovery of biomarkers for early stages of disease.

There is no acceptable maximum wall thickness (MWT) threshold for diagnosing apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. A normal myocardium naturally tapers apically; a fixed diagnostic threshold fails to account for this. Using cardiac magnetic resonance, "relative" ApHCM has been described with typical electrocardiographic features.

Autoimmune conditions have been reported among patients with cysteine-altering  NOTCH3 variants and CADASIL. This study aimed to investigate the occurrence of autoimmune illnesses and markers of inflammation in such populations. Cases were identified who had a NotCH3  cy Steine-Altering variant from the Geisinger MyCode &#174; Community Health Initiative. A similar analysis was conducted using data from the UK Biobank ( n ~450,000)

A total of 203,348 participants from UK Biobank with consumption data on three beverages were included. Low and moderate intake of pure fruit/vegetable juices showed a significantly inverse association with VAT mass in men and women.

eHEART was derived using landmark Cox models for incident CVD with repeated measures of conventional CVD risk predictors. Using 119,137 individuals from UK Biobank, we modelled the implications of initiating guideline-recommended statin therapy using eHEART with age- and sex-specific prioritisation thresholds.

Oral contraceptives (OC) and menopausal hormone therapy (MHT) contain exogenous sex hormones. However, their effect on the development of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is still debated. The current literature suggests that they may exert opposite effects on the risk of RA.

Pathogenic or likely pathogenic (P/LP) germline TP53 variants are the primary cause of Li-Fraumeni syndrome (LFS), a hereditary cancer predisposition disorder characterized by early-onset cancers. The TP53 p.R181H variant was the most frequently identified (9 of 109 individuals, 8%). A total of 110 cancers, including 47 hematologic cancers, were reported in 71 individuals.

Dementia is a debilitating syndrome characterized by the gradual loss of memory and cognitive function. We investigated data from 502,357 individuals from the UK Biobank cohort via Structural Equation Modelling. Our model demonstrated that higher education was associated with better cognitive performance.

Frailty is commonly considered as a syndrome of old individuals, but recent studies show that it can affect younger adults, too. Whether and how frailty differs in younger adults compared to old is however unknown. To this end, we analyzed the prevalence, characteristics, and risk factors of early-life (aged   METHODS: We analyzed individuals in the UK Biobank and Swedish Screening Across the Lifespan Twin study.

BMI was found to be a stronger risk factor in women compared to men for psoriatic arthropathy and gout. The effect on osteoarthritis was stronger in premenopausal compared to postmenopausal women. The nonlinearity for gout was also more extreme in men compared to women.

Sleep duration has been linked to a wide range of negative health outcomes and to reduced life expectancy. In a cross-population meta-analysis, we identify 84 independent loci for short sleep and 1 for long sleep. We estimate SNP-based heritability for both sleep traits in each ancestry based on population derived linkage disequilibrium scores.

Males presented higher ASCVD risk than females (8.63% vs. 2.65%) in the UK Biobank population. PM 2.5 , PM 10 , NO 2 , and NO x each were associated with an increased ASCvd risk >7.5% in the adjusted logistic models. No association was observed in both sexes between ASCVDrisk and PM 2-10.

Excessive salt consumption is known to increase the risk of hypertension and cardiovascular disease. But the association between salt intake and incident type 2 diabetes has not been extensively researched. In this study, we aimed to investigate the relationships between the frequency of adding salt to foods and incident Type 2 diabetes.

High-density lipoprotein cholesterol, HDL-C, was found to increase the risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) The shared genetic basis was largely explained by 29 pleiotropic loci and 36 shared gene-tissue pairs. Mendelian randomization revealed an independent causal relationship of genetically predicted HDL- C with CKD.

Lp(a) is a highly atherogenic lipoprotein subfraction that may contribute to polygenic risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) The extent of this contribution is unknown. The aim of this study was to estimate the contribution of Lp( a) to polygenic risk of CAD.

Plant-based dietary patterns may affect colorectal cancer (CRC) related outcomes. We aimed to examine the association of plant-based diet quality with risks of CRC incidence and mortality. We found a joint association of genetic risk and PDIs with incident CRC.

Study included 485 936 UK Biobank participants free of baseline VTE. Incident VTE cases were defined by ICD-9 and 10 codes with data from the nationwide inpatient data set. Eleven gastrointestinal diseases (nine non-neoplastic and two neoplastic) were associated with an increased risk of incident VTE after Bonferroni corrections.

UK cardiovascular disease (CVD) incidence and mortality have declined in recent decades. But socioeconomic inequalities persist. A new CVD model was developed to project health outcomes and the impact of guideline-recommended statin treatment.

Study examined age-specific effects of 14 risk factors on CVD and mortality in different age groups. Metabolic factors had the highest PAF in each age group, with hypertension (14.04%) and abdominal obesity (9.58%) prominent. Low income contributed most among middle-aged and elderly groups (3.74%) and less education accounted for 4.46% of the PAF.

Rates of cerebrovascular disease increase after menopause, which is often attributed to the absence of hormones. We examined the relationship between lifetime hormone exposure (LHE) and cerebral small vessel disease in more than 9,000 postmenopausal women in the UK-Biobank. Women with higher LHE Endo  showed smaller WMHV.

There are many ways in which selection bias might impact COVID-19 research. Here we focus on selection for receiving a polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) SARS-CoV-2 test. We construct four distinct time-periods between March 2020 and March 2021, representing distinct periods of testing pressures and lockdown restrictions.

Accurate information on PGx allele frequencies improves the implementation of PGx. We applied the Pharmacogenomics Clinical Annotation Tool (PharmCAT) on an integrated 200K UK Biobank genetic dataset (N = 200,044) Based on PharmCAT results, we estimated PGx frequencies for 17 pharmacogenes in five biogeographic groups.

Study aimed to calculate risk and worldwide prevalence of diabetes in patients with autoimmune hepatitis (AIH), primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) and primary sclerosing cholangsitis (PSC) Case-control study using data from the United Kingdom Biobank. Risk of T1D and T2D significantly increased compared with matched controls.

Stress and depression have a reciprocal relationship, but the neural underpinnings of this reciprocity are unclear. We investigated neuroimaging phenotypes that facilitate the reciprocity between stress and depressive symptoms. 22 195 participants (52.0% females) from the population-based UK Biobank study completed two visits.

Little is known about whether the association between genetic susceptibility to high waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) and incident coronary heart disease (CHD) is modified by adherence to a healthy lifestyle. This study included 282,316 white British individuals from the UK Biobank study.

Autozygosity is associated with rare Mendelian disorders and clinically relevant quantitative traits. We investigated associations between the fraction of the genome in runs of homozygosity (F ROH ) and common diseases in Genes & Health, UK Biobank, and 23andMe. We found experiment-wide significant associations between F ROH and twelve common diseases.

Polygenic scores (PGS) for coronary heart disease (CHD) are constructed using GWAS summary statistics for CHD. Pleiotropy is pervasive in biology and disease-associated variants often share etiologic pathways with multiple traits. Using lasso regression models, we developed two multi-PGS for ChD. In the Mayo Clinic Biobank, a 1 SD increase in multiPGSCHD was associated with a 1.66-fold (95% CI: 1.60-1.71) and 1.70-fold increased odds of CHD, respectively.

Racial minority status increased dementia risk by 24% (HR = 1.24, 95% CI: 1.07-1.45,  P  = 0.005), an association attenuated by socio-economic status (SES) Total race-dementia effect was mediated through both SES and Life's Essential 8 lifestyle sub-score (LE8 LIFESTYLE ), combining diet, smoking, physical activity, and sleep factors.

This study aimed to investigate the association between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) levels and dementia, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and delirium. 443,427 participants with a mean (standard deviation) age of 56.8 (8.0) years were included in this study. Based on Cox regression models, serum 25( OH)D concentrations were inversely associated with the risk of dementia.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) increasingly predict complex traits. Suboptimal performance in non-European populations raise concerns about clinical applications and health inequities. We developed CT-SLEB, a powerful and scalable method to calculate PRSs.

Type 2 diabetes disproportionately affects individuals of non-White ethnicity. Early disease detection and prediction are essential and require tools that can be deployed on a large scale. We aimed to tackle this problem by developing questionnaire-based prediction models for type 2 diabetes prevalence and incidence.

Many studies have reported on the associations between the amount of physical activity (PA) and the transitions of cardiometabolic multimorbidity (CMM) The evidence for PA intensity has not been fully evaluated. This study aimed to explore the impact of PA intensity on the dynamic progression of CMM.

Cine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the current gold standard for the assessment of cardiac anatomy and function. However, it typically only acquires a set of two-dimensional slices of the underlying three-dimensional (3D) anatomy of the heart. In this paper, we propose a novel fully automatic surface reconstruction pipeline capable of reconstructing multi-class 3D cardiac anatomy meshes from raw cine MRI acquisitions.

Both air pollution and physical inactivity contribute to the increased risk of incident chronic kidney disease (CKD) The detrimental effects of air pollution exposure could be augmented by an elevated intake of air pollutants during exercise. We analyzed 367,978 participants who were CKD-free at baseline (2006-2010) based on the UK Biobank.

Walking pace is associated with various health-related outcomes. The aim of this study was to investigate the association between self-reported walking pace and the incidences of diabetic microvascular complications. A total of 14 518 participants with T2D in the UK Biobank were included.

The role of fatty acids (FAs) in primary prevention of coronary artery disease (CAD) is highly debated. Here, we report the prospective associations of circulating FAs and genetic predisposition with CAD development in 101,367 U.K. Biobank participants.

Gilbert syndrome (GS) is genotypically predetermined by UGT1A1*28 homozygosity in Europeans. GS is phenotypically defined by hyperbilirubinemia using total bilirubin (TB) cutoff &#8805;1mg/dL (17 &#956;mol/L) The prevalence of illnesses associated with GS has never been studied prospectively. UK Biobank with apparently healthy liver participants (middle-aged, n=138,125) were analyzed.

Male-pattern hair loss (MPHL) is common and highly heritable. While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have generated insights into the contribution of common variants to MPHL etiology, the relevance of rare variants remains unclear. We perform gene-based and single-variant analyses in exome-sequencing data.

Some evidence suggests gene-treatment interactions might cause persistent symptoms in individuals receiving levothyroxine (LT4) treatment. We investigated if single-nucleotide variations (SNVs) were associated with outcomes indicative of local tissue hypothyroidism in LT4-treated patients and controls.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and cardiovascular traits might share underlying causes. We sought to identify clusters of cardiovascular traits that share genetic factors with AD. The clustering of body mass index (BMI) with weight but not height indicates that weight defines BMI-AD pleiotropy.

Common genetic variants associated with lung cancer have been well studied in the past decade. Only 12.3% heritability has been explained by these variants. In this study, we investigate the contribution of rare variants (RVs)

The concept of biological age has emerged as a measurement that reflects physiological and functional decline with ageing. Here we aimed to develop a deep neural network (DNN) model that predicts biological age from optical coherence tomography (OCT) The DNN model predicted age with a mean absolute error of 3.27 years and showed a strong correlation of 0.85 with chronological age.

Personalized prediction of chronic diseases is crucial for reducing the disease burden. Previous studies on chronic diseases have not adequately considered the relationship between chronic diseases. We developed a multitask learning Cox (MTL-Cox) model for personalized prediction of nine typical chronic diseases on the UK Biobank dataset.

A low resting heart rate (RHR) implies a more efficient heart function and a lower risk of cardiovascular disease. However, observational studies have reported a U-shaped association between RHR and atrial fibrillation (AF) In contrast, Mendelian randomization (MR) studies have found an inverse causal association. The aim is to investigate the causal association using linear and non-linear MR (NLMR)

Abnormally short and long sleep are associated with premature mortality. We calculated Sleep Regularity Index (SRI) scores from > 10 million hours of accelerometer data. Higher sleep regularity was associated with a 20%-48% lower risk of all-cause mortality.

Study looked at long-term associations between coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and diabetes complications and mortality, in patients with diabetes. Compared with uninfected participants, patients with CO VID-19 infection with diabetes were consistently associated with higher risks of cardiovascular diseases.

Little is known about milder forms of SARS-CoV-2 infection. We sought to explore the association between ethnic background and the probability of testing, testing positive, hospitalisation, COVID-19 mortality and vaccination uptake.

Social isolation and loneliness pose significant public health challenges globally. The objective of this study is to investigate the association between social isolation, loneliness, and the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) 423,503 UK adults from the UK Biobank and 13,800 Chinese adults from China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study were analyzed.

We assessed several genomic data science tools. Tools were compared in terms of data storage technology, query speed, scalability, annotation, data manipulation, visualization, data output representation, and availability. tools that leverage sophisticated data structures are noted as the most suitable for large-scale projects.

Inflammation is linked with chronic pain but the extent to which this relationship is associated with biopsychosocial factors is not known. We investigated relationships between blood C-reactive protein (CRP) and regional chronic pain conditions adjusting for a large range of potential confounders.

Fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) is an enzyme that degrades anandamide, an endocannabinoid that modulates mesolimbic dopamine release. FAAH's specific role in subjective well-being remains underexplored. We found that the A-allele of FAAH gene (rs324420) was associated with lowerWell-being scores.

Autoimmune disorders (ADs) occur when self-attacking autoantibodies are produced due to failure in the self-tolerance mechanisms. ADs are polygenic disorders and associations with genes both in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) region and outside of it have been described. For the first time, we performed a comparative polygenic risk score (PRS) for 11 different ADs.

Using genome-wide imputed genetic data, we aimed to classify 158,951 unrelated individuals from the UK Biobank as either concordant or deviating from two well-measured phenotypes. Stratifying individuals misaligned to a genetic predictor based on common variants may be important for follow-up studies.

Previous work identified rare variants in DSTYK associated with human congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT) Here, we present a series of mouse and human studies to clarify the association, penetrance, and expressivity of DSTyK variants.

A cohort of 93,095 UK Biobank participants (mean age 62 years) without a history of type 2 diabetes wore a wrist-worn accelerometer for 1 week. We converted accelerometer information to estimate metabolic equivalent of task (MET), summing MET h of total physical activity completed within three intra-day time segments (morning, afternoon and evening) We quantified physical activity consistency as the SD of participants' dailytotal physical activity.

Tobacco smoking is the most important risk factor for bladder cancer. Previous studies have identified the N-acetyltransferase (NAT2) gene in association with bladder cancer risk. NAT2 gene encodes an enzyme that metabolizes aromatic amines, carcinogens commonly found in tobacco smoke.

UK Biobank recruited over 500,000 women and men between 2006 and 2010. Over 12.5 years of follow-up, there were 4,908 MI events in women and 10,517 in men. A unit higher log-transformed O/T ratio was associated with a lower risk of MI in men, but not women.

Metformin shows beneficial effects on cardiometabolic health in diabetic individuals. However, the beneficial effects in the general population, especially in non-diabetic individuals are unclear. We aim to estimate the effects of perturbation of seven metformin targets.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained arrhythmia in adults. Investigations of risk factor profiles for AF according to age and genetic risk groups are essential to promote individualized strategies.

Eighty IMDs (involving allergic/atopic diseases, autoimmune diseases, immunodeficiency diseases, etc) were identified in the UK Biobank. During a median of 12.0 years of follow-up, 2244 cases out of 500 371 subjects developed HPV-associated diseases. Overall, participants with IMDs had a higher risk of HPV- associated diseases.

Study included 161,127 White European UK Biobank participants who were free of diabetes at baseline. Anthropometric measures included height, weight, BMI, A Body Shape Index, waist circumference, waist to hip ratio. All markers except height and hip index were positively associated with type 2 diabetes.

The association of serum sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) concentrations with dementia risk remains uncertain. We examined associations of serum SHBG levels with incidence of all-cause dementia and its subtypes in middle-aged to older women from the large UK Biobank cohort study.

Medial temporal lobe (MTL) atrophy is correlated with risk and severity of Alzheimer disease (AD) pathology and cognitive decline. Increasing evidence suggest that oestrogens affect the aging of MTL structures. Here we investigate the relationship between reproductive hormone exposure, polygenic scores for AD risk and oestradiol concentration, MTL anatomy and cognitive performance.

Study included 4,293 and 1,157 adults with rheumatoid arthritis. Medians (25th-75th percentiles) of serum 25(OH)D and omega-3 % were 45.8 (31.4-62.9) nmol/L and 4.1 % (3.3 %-5.1%) During 52,612 person-years of follow-up, 502 all-cause deaths occurred.

The associations between intensity of stair climbing and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) are not fully understood. This prospective study used data of 458,860 adult participants from the UK Biobank. Participants who stopped stair climbing between baseline and resurvey had a higher risk of ASCVD compared with those who never climbed stairs.

 Concurrence between ovarian reserve and spontaneous miscarriage was observed. It may be attributed to shared genetic risk loci enriched in antigen processing and presentation and autoimmune disease pathways. Risk of early spontaneous miscarriage 1.57 times higher in the group with AMH.

Time spent on screen-based sedentary activities is significantly associated with dementia risk. Whether the associations vary by family history of dementia is currently unknown. We examined independent associations of TV viewing and computer use with dementia and assess the modifying effect of FHx.

Regular aspirin use was associated with an 11.2% reduction in the risk of developing new liver diseases. The risk of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (ICD-10 K76.0) and MRI-diagnosed steatosis was significantly lower among aspirin users. No increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding or ulcers was observed.

Study looked at 454,712 UK Biobank participants with exome sequence and clinical data. Participants had a self-reported family history of breast or colorectal cancer and a pathogenic/likely pathogenic variant in the major genes responsible for hereditary breast cancer or Lynch syndrome. Women with pathogenic BRCA1 or BRCa2 variant had increased risk of breast cancer.

Study sought to examine whether younger onset age of HF is associated with a higher risk of incident dementia. Compared with 442,791 participants without HF, those with HF had a higherrisk of all-cause dementia (HR: 1.14)

In cross-platform analyses of 174 metabolites, we identify 499 associations (P) We identified 499 associations between 174 metabolites and a range of human health conditions.

Study examined gray and white matter associations of four different PLEs in subjects of the UK Biobank study with neuroimaging data. Individuals that reported having experienced auditory hallucinations had smaller volumes of the caudate, putamen, and accumbens. People who indicated they had ever believed in unreal conspiracies had a larger volume of the left amygdala.

Previous Mendelian randomization (MR) studies on 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) and cancer have typically adopted a handful of variants and found no relationship. Using a larger set of variants associated with 25( OH)D (74 SNPs, up from 6 previously), we perform a unified MR analysis to re-evaluate the relationship. Our findings are broadly consistent with previous MR studies indicating no relationship, apart from ovarian cancers.

Bardet-Biedl Syndrome (BBS) is a pleiotropic genetic disease caused by the dysfunction of primary cilia. The immune system of patients with ciliopathies has not been investigated. The impairment of processes typically associated with cilia may have influence on the hematopoietic compartment and immunity.

Germline de novo copy number variants (CNVs) are known causes of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) The contribution of mosaic (early-developmental) copy number variant (mCNVs), has not been explored. In this study, we assessed the contribution of mCNVs to ASD by assessing genotype array intensity data from 12,077 probands with ASD and 5,500 unaffected siblings.

Adiposity is a strong risk factor for cancer incidence and mortality. Most of the evidence available has focused on body mass index (BMI) as a marker of adiposity. There is limited evidence on relationships of cancer with other adiposity markers, and if these associations are linear or not. The aim of this study was to investigate the associations of six adiposity marker with incidence and death from 24 cancers.

Red wine drinking, consumption with food and spreading alcohol intake over 3-4 days were associated with lower risk of mortality and vascular events among regular alcohol drinkers. If replicated and validated, these findings have the potential to influence policy and practice advice on less harmful patterns of alcohol consumption.

Donor and recipient size matching during heart transplant can be assessed using weight or predicted heart mass (PHM) ratios. Of 53,648 adult patients in the United Network of Organ Sharing database between 1996 and 2016, 6528 (12.2%) died within the first year. undersized matches by any metric were associated with increased 1-year mortality.

In social neuroscience, many experiments have sought to first define and then locate 'perspective taking', 'empathy', and other psychological concepts to specific brain circuits. We explored coherent representations of structural co-variation at population scale within a recent social brain atlas, by translating autoencoder neural networks from deep learning.

Biallelic Parkin (PRKN) mutations cause autosomal recessive Parkinson's disease (PD) The role of monoallelic PRKN mutations as a risk factor for PD remains unclear. We investigated the role of single heterozygous PR KN mutations in three large independent case-control cohorts totalling 10 858 PD cases and 8328 controls.

Admixed populations are routinely excluded from genomic studies due to concerns over population structure. We present a statistical framework and software package, Tractor, to facilitate the inclusion of admixed individuals in association studies. We test Tractor with simulated and empirical two-way admixed African-European cohorts.

We evaluate the genetic basis of 35 blood and urine laboratory measurements in the UK Biobank (n = 363,228 individuals) We identify 5,794 independent loci associated with at least one trait (p  0.1 s.d.) protein-altering, human leukocyte antigen (HLA) and copy number variant (CNV) associations. We discover 51 causal relationships, including previously known agonistic effects of urate on gout and cystatin C on stroke.

Distribution entropy (DistEn) is a recently introduced complexity measure that is designed specifically for shorter duration heartbeat recordings. We hypothesized that reduced DistEn predicted increased mortality in a large population cohort. The prognostic value of DistEn was examined in 7631 middle-older-aged UK Biobank participants who had 2-minute resting ECGs conducted.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death globally. An improved risk stratification strategy can increase efficiency of low-dose CT (LDCT) screening. The age reaching the LDCT screening recommendation threshold can vary by 4 to 8 years, depending on the individual's genetic background.

Left ventricular noncompaction (LVNC) may represent a distinct pathology or a secondary phenotype associated with other cardiac diseases. We performed rare variant association analysis with 840 LVNC cases and 125,748 gnomAD population controls. We observed substantial genetic overlap indicating that LVNC often represents a phenotypic variation of DCM or HCM. In contrast, truncating variants in MYH7, ACTN2, and PRDM16 were uniquely associated with LVNC.

Several polygenic risk scores (PRS) have been developed for cardiovascular risk prediction. This study assesses the clinical utility of including four PRS, along with conventional risk factors, to predict risk of ischemic heart disease (IHD), myocardial infarction (MI), and first MI event on or before age 50.

In epidemiological studies, the exposure is often a coarsened approximation to some latent continuous trait. Genetically driven variation in the outcome can exist within categories of the exposure measurement. We propose a framework to clarify this violation.

Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF1) has been implicated in mitogenic and anti-apoptotic mechanisms that promote susceptibility to cancer development and growth. Previous epidemiological studies have described phenotypic associations between higher circulating levels of IGF1 in adults with higher risks for breast, prostate, ovarian, colorectal, melanoma and lung cancers. We perform a genome-wide association study in 428,525 white European ancestry individuals.

Machine learning models could be used to predict risks at different stages of management. ML models predicted the risk of death of 0.906 at diagnosis, 0.818, at hospital admission and 0.721 at ICU admission.

The Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine (TOPMed) programme seeks to elucidate the genetic architecture and biology of heart, lung, blood and sleep disorders. The initial phases of the programme focused on whole-genome sequencing of individuals with rich phenotypic data and diverse backgrounds. In the first 53,831 TOPMed samples, we detected more than 400 million single-nucleotide and insertion or deletion variants.

Metabolite levels in urine may provide insights into genetic mechanisms shaping related pathways. We investigate the cumulative contribution of rare, exonic genetic variants on urine levels of 1487 metabolites and 53,714 metabolite ratios among 4864 GCKD study participants. We report the detection of 128 significant associations involving 30 unique genes, 16 of which are known to underlie inborn errors of metabolism.

Genome-wide association studies have discovered numerous genomic loci associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) Yet the causal genes and variants are incompletely identified. We performed an updated genome-wide AD meta-analysis, which identified 37 risk loci.

Genetic connections of a person can be traced using identity by descent (IBD) segments. On average, one UK individual shares IBD segments with 14,000 UK Biobank participants, which we refer to as "relatives" Using these segments, approximately 80% of a people's genome can be imputed.

We performed a multivariate gene-by-environment genome-wide interaction study (GEWIS) of suicidality in 123,633 individuals. PTSD was identified as a primary driving environment for GxE at risk loci. GEWIS points to extracellular matrix biology and synaptic plasticity as biological interactors with the effects of potentially modifiable lifetime traumatic experiences on genetic risk for suicide.

Study used genotype data on 166,281 Icelanders and 408,595 individuals from the UK Biobank. 25,205 BCC cases and 683,058 controls were tested. Rare germline loss-of-function variants in PTPN14 conferred substantial risks of BCC. Findings highlight future prospects for new discoveries on carcinogenesis.

Bell's palsy is the most common cause of unilateral facial paralysis. Previous studies have implicated post-viral inflammation and resulting compression of the facial nerve. A genetic component in the etiology and an autosomal dominant inheritance has been proposed.

Risky behaviors, such as substance use and unprotected sex, are associated with various physical and mental health problems. Recent genome-wide association studies indicated that variation in the cell adhesion molecule 2 (CADM2) gene plays a role in risky behaviors and self-control. In this phenome-wide scan for risky behavior, it was tested if underlying common vulnerability could be (partly) explained by pleiotropic effects of this gene.

Bayesian methods have been developed using individual-level GWAS data to estimate multiple genetic architecture parameters including selection signature. We present a method (SBayesS) that only requires GWAS summary statistics. We estimate that, on average across traits, about 1% of human genome sequence are mutational targets.

Most genome-wide association study (GWAS) analyses test the association between single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and a single trait or outcome. While valuable second-step analyses of these associations are common, single-step multivariate analyses of GWAS data are rarely performed.

Tumor mutational burden (TMB) is an emerging biomarker of response to immunotherapy in solid tumors. The extent to which variation in TMB between patients is attributable to germline genetic variation remains elusive. Using 7,004 unrelated patients of European descent across 33 cancer types, we show that pan-cancer TMB is polygenic.

Keratoconus is characterised by reduced rigidity of the cornea. It can lead to severe visual morbidity in children and young adults. It is a common indication for corneal transplantation worldwide.

Macular Telangiectasia Type 2 (MacTel) is a rare degenerative retinal disease with complex genetic architecture. We performed a genome-wide association study on 1,067 MacTel patients and 3,799 controls. We identified eight novel genome- wide significant loci (p)

There is limited prospective evidence on the association between meat consumption and many common, non-cancerous health outcomes. We examined associations of meat intake with risk of 25 common conditions (other than cancer) We used data from 474,985 middle-aged adults recruited into the UK Biobank study.

More than 150 million women worldwide use oral contraceptives. Women with inherited thrombophilia are at an increased risk for venous thromboembolism. The polygenic risk score could be used to identify women who are at high risk.

Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a life-threatening heart disease and a common cause of heart failure due to systolic dysfunction and subsequent left or biventricular dilatation. As a complex disease, the exact genetic risk factors are largely unknown and many patients remain without a molecular diagnosis.

We identify 35 modifiable factors for age gap (p  -4  ), where pulmonary functions, body mass, hand grip strength, basal metabolic rate, estimated glomerular filtration rate, and C-reactive protein show the most significant associations. We identify CST3 as an essential gene for biological aging, which is highly expressed in the brain and is associated with immune and metabolic traits.

Viral encephalitis increases later-life risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by a factor of 31. West Nile virus (WNV) was significantly associated with deaths from AD in 50 US states.

Accurate polygenic scores (PGSs) facilitate the genetic prediction of complex traits and aid in the development of personalized medicine. We develop a statistical method called multi-trait assisted PGS (mtPGS) which can construct accurate PGSs for a target trait of interest.

Using 2D CNNs on high-resolution medical volumes is very computationally demanding, especially for large datasets like UK Biobank, which aims to scan 100,000 subjects. Using our approach, one training epoch with 20,324 subjects takes 20-50 s using a single GPU, which is two orders of magnitude faster than a small 3D CNN.

Clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular diseases. We identified CHIP using whole-exome sequencing data of blood DNA. We developed predicted gene expression scores for 26 inflammasome-related genes and assessed how they modify CHIP-associated CVD risk.

When polygenic risk score (PRS) is derived from summary statistics, independence between discovery and test sets cannot be monitored. We compared two types of PRS studies derived from raw genetic data and the summary statistics for IGAP.

Glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor (GLP1R) is a major drug target. Several agonists are prescribed in individuals with type 2 diabetes and obesity. The impact of genetic variability of GLP1r on receptor function and its association with metabolic traits are unclear.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) has a significant impact on global burden of disease. Complications in clinical management can occur when response to pharmacological modalities is considered inadequate and symptoms persist. We aim to investigate inflammation, proxied by C-reactive protein (CRP) levels, and body mass index (BMI) as putative causal risk factors for depression and subsequent treatment resistance.

Major depressive disorder (MDD), bipolar disorder (BD), and schizophrenia (SCZ) are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular diseases, including venous thromboembolism (VTE) Genetic studies have increasingly provided evidence of the shared genetic risk of psychiatric and cardiometabolic illnesses. This study aimed to determine whether a genetic predisposition to MDD, BD, or SCZ is associated with a risk of VTE.

Metabolites' connection to sarcopenia through inflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction is presumed, but their impact remains unclear due to limitations in conventional observational studies. We conducted a Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to elucidate the association of serum metabolites with sarc Openia and its related traits, i.e., appendicular lean mass and grip strength. Fourteen genetically predicted serum metabolites were associated with the risk of sarc openia.

The cerebellum and the brainstem are two brain structures involved in pain processing and modulation that have also been associated with migraine pathophysiology. The aim of this study was to investigate possible associations between the morphology of the cerebellums and migraine. The analyses were based on data from 712 individuals with migraine and 45,681 healthy controls.

An overall significant effect of GSD on CVD was found in meta-analysis. A positive shared genetic basis was observed for GSD with stroke and CAD. The shared genetic architecture was largely explained by the multiple pleiotropic loci identified in cross-phenotype association study.

Smoking may increase headache risk, individuals may smoke to alleviate headaches, or smoking and headache may share common risk factors. Mendelian randomization is a method that uses genetic variants as instruments for making causal inferences about an exposure and an outcome. There was evidence for weak causal effects of smoking initiation and lifetime smoking (but not smoking heaviness) on likelihood of experiencing headache.

Study followed 455,804 participants from the United Kingdom Biobank cohort who were free of lung cancer at baseline. Compared with participants without CVD, those with CVD had HRs of 1.49 for NSCLC, 1.80 for lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) and 1.25 for lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) CVD was associated with lung cancer risk across each genetic risk level.

Sedentary behavior is associated with cardiometabolic disease and mortality, but its association with dementia is unclear. A retrospective study of prospectively collected data from the UK Biobank included 49 841 adults aged 60 years or older without a diagnosis of dementia at the time of wearing the wrist accelerometer.

Diets rich in plant-based foods are associated with lower risks of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) While the prospective evidence is limited, we aimed to examine longitudinal associations of plant- based diets and genetic susceptibility with NAFLD risk.

Few studies have investigated associations between adiposity and reproductive factors using causal methods. We used genetic data from UK Biobank (273,238 women) and other consortia for eight reproductive factors. We found a higher childhood body size leads to an earlier age at menarche.

Left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LSVD) is a heterogeneous condition with several factors influencing prognosis. Better phenotyping of asymptomatic individuals can inform preventative strategies.

Metabolic profiling is increasingly employed in clinical care. However, there is little evidence on the benefit of metabolic profiling as compared with established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk scores. UK Biobank is a prospective study of 0.5 million participants, aged 40-69 at recruitment.

The social determinants of ethnic disparities in risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection during the first wave of the pandemic in the UK remain unclear. In May 2020, a total of 20 195 adults were recruited from the general population into the UK Biobank Sars-Cov-2 Serology Study.

Human exposome has emerged as a significant contributor to the overall risk of developing major diseases, such as cardiovascular disease (CVD) and diabetes. We developed and evaluate a novel and fair machine learning (ML) model for CVD and type 2 diabetes (T2D) risk prediction based on a set of readily available exposomes.

Denture use may potentially increase the risk of cardiometabolic diseases (CMDs), but the casual relevance and strength of the associations are currently unknown. In observational analysis, denture use was associated with 14-25% higher risks of various CMDs.

CYP2C19 is a key enzyme involved in the metabolism of several drugs, including SSRIs. Variations in the gene are associated with differential metabolic activity, and thus differential SSRI exposure. We analysed data from the UK Biobank, a large, deeply phenotyped prospective study.

The prevalence of type 2 diabetes is increasing rapidly, particularly among younger age groups. Estimates suggest that people with diabetes die, on average, 6 years earlier than people without diabetes.

Mosaic chromosomal alterations (mCAs) are common in cancers and can arise decades before diagnosis. Using mCA clone size estimates from the blood of approximately 500,000 UK Biobank participants, we estimate mutation rates and fitness consequences of acquired gain, loss and copy-neutral loss of heterozygosity events.

Lifestyle factors have been acknowledged to be modifiable targets that can be used to counter the increasing prevalence of depression. This study aims to investigate combining an extensive range of lifestyle factors, including alcohol consumption, diet, physical activity, sleep, smoking and sedentary behavior.

Femoral neck width (FNW), diameter of the femoral head (DFH) and hip axis length (HAL) were derived automatically from left hip DXA scans. Correlations were calculated between geometric parameters, age, height, and weight. Greater FNW and HAL were independently related to an increased risk of radiographic HOA.

A prospective cohort with a total of 317,552 participants without NCDs at recruitment was obtained from UK Biobank. Cox proportional hazards models were used to examine associations of lifestyle score (HLS), polygenic risk score (PRS) for longevity. Quitting smoking showed the largest benefits among various lifestyles.

Using data from the UK Biobank, we reveal the roles of selection and mutation in shaping the genetic diversity of mosaic chromosomal alterations in healthy blood.

Uticaria is characterized by inappropriate mast cell degranulation leading to the development of wheals and/or angioedema. Twin and family studies indicate that there is a substantial heritable component to urticaria risk. Genome-wide significant associations were identified at 6 independent loci. Genes with expected or established roles in mast cell biology were associated with the 4 other genome-wide association signals.

Study included 214,945 participants over the age of 60 who had available information on glucosamine use and did not have dementia at baseline in the UK Biobank. The primary outcome was incident vascular dementia, incident Alzheimer's disease, and incident frontotemporal dementia. Overall, habitual glucosamines use was significantly associated with a lower risk of vascular dementia.

Ultra-processed food (UPF) consumption has aroused concern about its potential health effects. This study evaluates the association of UPF consumption with mortality. Those with the highest quartile of UpF consumption had higher risks of all-cause mortality.

A data-driven transdiagnostic approach could provide a new perspective on the neurobiology of AUD and NUD. Three biotypes-primary NUD, mixed NUD/AUD with depression and anxiety, and mixed AUD/NUD-were identified. Cerebellar FC features were important in distinguishing the 3 biotypes.

Using data from 91,532 participants in the UK Biobank, we evaluated the associations of metabolites measured using nuclear magnetic resonance testing with the risk of CKD. We found that 90 out of 142 lipid biomarkers were significantly associated with incident CKD and that several amino acids, fatty acids, and inflammatory biomarker were associated with CKD risk. These findings advance our knowledge about mechanistic pathways that may contribute to the development of CKd.

Lipid traits are known essential mediators of cardiovascular disease. Few approaches have taken advantage of their shared genetic effects. We apply a Bayesian multivariate size estimator, mash, to GWAS of four lipid traits.

Heart failure is a major health problem and early diagnosis is important. Atherosclerosis is the main cause of HF and carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) is a recognized early measure of atherosclerosis. This study aimed to investigate whether increased IMT is associated with changes in cardiac structure and function in middle-aged participants of the UK Biobank Study.

Clonal hematopoiesis (CH) can differ in frequency and cellular fitness by CH type. Co-occurring CH raises questions as to their origin, selection, and impact. We integrate sequence and genotype array data in up to 482,378 UK Biobank participants.

The relationship between coffee consumption and diabetes-related vascular complications remains unclear. This study assessed the relationships of coffee consumption with major cardiovascular disease (CVD) and microvascular disease (MVD) in never-smokers with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM)

Women with an early menopause are at higher risk of stroke compared with women with a later one. We analyzed data of the UK Biobank and EPIC-CVD study. Over a median follow-up of 12.6 years, 6770 women experienced a stroke. We found no statistically significant association between genetically proxied age at menopausal and risk of any type of stroke.

Cardiac output, systemic vascular resistance, and aortic distensibility were measured from cardiac magnetic resonance imaging in 31 112 (distensibility in 21 178) participants (46.3% male, mean age+/-SD 63+/-7 years) Participants with higher blood pressure had higher cardiac output (higher by 17.9+/-26.6% in hypertensive compared with those with optimal blood pressure)

Conventional measurements of fasting and postprandial blood glucose levels investigated in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) cannot capture the effects of DNA variability on 'around the clock' glucoregulatory processes. Here we show that GWAS meta-analysis of glucose measurements under nonstandardized conditions (random glucose (RG) in 476,326 individuals enables locus discovery and innovative pathophysiological observations.

In 176,249 dementia-free UK Biobank participants aged &#8805;60 years at baseline, Cox proportional-hazards models were used to investigate the association between MetS and incident dementia. MetS was defined as the presence of elevated waist circumference, triglycerides, blood pressure, blood glucose, and reduced high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Over 15 years of follow-up, 5255 participants developed dementia.

Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and carriage of the HLA-B27 gene are reportedly associated with increased mortality. We evaluated this hypothesis, using data from both a 35-year AS follow-up study and UK Biobank data.

The role of genetic background underlying the disparity of relative risk of smoking and lung cancer between European populations and East Asians remains unclear. To assess the role of ethnic differences in genetic factors associated with smoking-related risk of lung cancer, we constructed ethnic-specific polygenic risk scores (PRSs)

Early menarche, early menopause, short reproductive lifespan, early age at first birth, multiparity, and use of oral contraceptives (OCs) and hormone replacement therapy (HRT) were associated with shorter LTL.

AMPK is a pharmacological target of metformin. We investigated the effect of AMPK on the risk of psoriasis and its comorbidities and mortality among participants in the UK Biobank. The AMPK genetic risk score was associated with a 12.4% increase in the risk in men.

Genomic discovery and characterization of risk loci for type 2 diabetes (T2D) have been conducted primarily in individuals of European ancestry. We conducted a multiethnic genome-wide association study of T2D among 53,102 cases and 193,679 control subjects from African, Hispanic, Asian, Native Hawaiian, and European population groups. In individuals of African ancestry, we discovered a risk variant in the  TGFB1 gene (rs11466334, risk allele frequency (RAF) = 6.8%, odds ratio [OR] = 1.27, p = 2.06 × 10 -8 ), which replicated in independent studies. We also identified amultiethnic risk variant of the BACE2 gene

Deep neural networks trained to predict morbidity risk from wearable sensor data can provide a high-quality and cheap alternative for BAA determination. The GeroSense BAA model was trained and validated using steps per minute recordings from 103,830 one-week long and 2,599 of up to 2 years-long longitudinal samples.

Liver function tests (LFTs) measure a series of complex traits that are affected by genetic and environmental factors. Previous studies demonstrated that there exist significant differences in LFTs across individuals, which may be the results of the unique genetic profile of each individual. We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) to evaluate the influence of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in L FTs.

We conducted a genome-wide association study of the preference for whole versus skimmed milk. Mendelian randomization indicated that whole-milk preference significantly decreased the risk of inflammatory bowel disease ( &#946; =-1.735, P =0.048) Of the two subtypes, whole-Milk preference was associated with a lower risk of Crohn disease. But there was no significant effect on therisk of ulcerative colitis.

Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and/or in combination with calcium channel blockers (CCBs) are generally recommended as the first-line antihypertensive therapy for people with hypertension and kidney dysfunction. We used published genetic variants in genes regulating target proteins of these drugs. We then applied a meta-analysis of the largest available genome-wide association studies of kidney function.

Genome-wide association meta-analysis (GWAMA) is an effective approach to enlarge sample sizes and empower the discovery of novel associations. Independent replication has been used as a gold-standard for validating genetic associations. We demonstrate using simulations that MAMBA is more powerful and robust than existing methods, and produces more accurate genetic effects estimates.

Deriving reliable information about the structural and functional architecture of the brain in vivo is critical for the clinical and basic neurosciences. Diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (dMRI) is a fertile imaging technique for probing and visualising brain tissue microstructure in vivo. We introduce Fast qualitY conTrol meThod foR derIved diffUsion Metrics (YTTRIUM) to evaluate diffusion map quality and mean diffusion metrics.

Homocysteine (Hcy) is a toxic amino acid and hyperhomocysteinemia (HHcy) was reported to be associated with both cerebrovascular disease and neurodegenerative disease. We extracted the genetic variants (SNPs) associated with plasma Hcy level from a large genome-wide association study (GWAS) meta-analysis.

Since pancreatic islets are central to type 2 diabetes (T2D), we profiled 15,298 islet cells by using combinatorial barcoding snATAC-seq. We cataloged 228,873 accessible chromatin sites and identified transcription factors underlying lineage- and state-specific regulation.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and family-based studies have revealed partly overlapping genetic architectures between various psychiatric disorders. Given clinical overlap between disorders, our knowledge of the genetic architectures underlying specific symptom profiles and risk factors is limited. Here, we aimed to derive distinct profiles relevant to mental health in healthy individuals.

Serpin family A member 1 ( SERPINA1 ) Z allele is present in approximately one in 25 individuals of European ancestry. Z allele homozygosity (Pi*ZZ) is the most common cause of alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency and is a proven risk factor for cirrhosis. In UK Biobank, we identified 1,493 cases of Cirrhosis, 12,603 Z allele heterozygotes, and 129 Zallee homozygotes among 312,671 unrelated white British participants.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) can be divided into four phenotypes based on clinical evolution. The pathophysiological boundaries of these phenotypes are unclear, limiting treatment stratification. Machine learning can identify groups with similar features using multidimensional data.

Dysregulation of the urea cycle has been detected in colorectal cancer (CRC) However, the impact of the UC's end product, urea, on CRC development remains unclear. We investigated the association between serum urea and CRC risk based on the data of 348 872 participants cancer-free at recruitment from the UK Biobank. Lower urea levels were associated with a higher CRC risk.

Short anagen hair (SAH) is a rare paediatric hair disorder. It is characterized by a short anagen phase, an inability to grow long scalp hair and a negative psychological impact. The genetic basis of SAH is currently unknown.

There were 398,146 participants without diabetes and 30,952 patients with diabetes from the UK Biobank cohort included in this study. After a median 12.90 years follow-up, 14,710 participants developed incident diabetes (58.83 +/- 7.52 years, 56.10% male) After multivariate adjustment, serum albumin was inversely associated with incident diabetes: hazard ratio (HR) per 10 g/l increase 0.88 [0.82;0.94].

A total of 285 009 participants free of CVD at baseline from the UK Biobank were included in this analysis. Four major cardiovascular admission events were identified: chronic ischaemic heart disease (CIHD), cerebrovascular disease, atrial fibrillation and heart failure. We observed significant associations between air pollution and both first admission and readmission for CVDs.

There is insufficient evidence to show that the guidelines' recommendations of physical activity are associated with long-term benefits in individuals with hypertension. MPA was inversely associated with risks of major adverse cardiovascular events and all-cause mortality. Modest amounts of LPA or VPA were likely to be more beneficial than higher amounts of either.

Body mass index (BMI) is an easily obtained adiposity surrogate. There is controversy regarding the BMI associated with the lowest mortality risk. Study used incident deaths from the UK Biobank (UKB; 2006-2022)

Genome-Wide Association Study of standard lipid measures using two approaches. 90 variants meet significance threshold only in the meta-analysis. 64 variants are significant only in pooled analysis. 20% of variants in each of those groups are most prevalent in non-European, non-Asian ancestry individuals.

Depression is often present concurrently with coronary artery disease (CAD), a disease with which it shares many risk factors. The manner in which depression mediates and moderates the association between traits (including biomarkers, anthropometric indicators, lifestyle behaviors, etc.) and CAD is largely unknown.

Elevated blood pressure (BP) is a modifiable risk factor associated with cognitive impairment and cerebrovascular diseases. However, the causal effect of BP on white matter brain aging remains unclear.

A 1 standard deviation higher genetically predicted plasma cortisol was associated with greater odds of hypertension. There was no evidence of association with type 2 diabetes, osteoporosis, depression and schizophrenia. The association with hypertension was attenuated upon adjustment for waist circumference, suggesting potential mediation through central obesity.

Lower eGFR, an indication of poor kidney function, was associated with higher RCC risk when measured up to 5 years prior to diagnosis. Markers of kidney function provided limited improvements in R CC risk discrimination beyond established risk factors.

About 416,258 participants without a prior CKD diagnosis enrolled in the UK Biobank between 2006 and 2010. At baseline, 33,156 (8.0%) participants were diagnosed with FGIDs, including 21,060 (5.1%) cases of IBS, dyspepsia, and other FIDs. During a mean follow-up period of 12.1 years, 11,001 (2.6%) participants developed CKD.

Sugar consumption was assessed in 186,622 UK Biobank participants with at least one web-based dietary questionnaire. Over a mean follow-up of 10.6 (standard deviation 1.1) years, 1498 incident dementia cases occurred. The intake of FS and intrinsic sugar was significantly associated with dementia risk.

Personality has recently emerged as a critical determinant for multiple health outcomes. However, evidence is less established for brain health, and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Five personality traits, including warmth, diligence, nervousness, sociability and curiosity, were constructed.

Sex hormones have been identified as cardiovascular risk factors. Relationship between sex hormones and the risk of arrhythmias in men has not yet been well studied in the prospective cohort study.

Study aimed to identify clustering of lifestyle risk behaviours and their 4 +/- year changes among UK adults with CVD. Smoking, high alcohol intake, poor fruit and vegetable consumption, physical inactivity, poor sleep balance ( 8 h/night) and prolonged sitting were assessed. Three latent classes emerged: LC1, LC2 and LC3.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) models are based on the evaluation of the additive effects attributable to common variants. In contrast, burden tests are often used to identify an enrichment of rare deleterious variants in specific genes. We applied our framework on UK Biobank dataset with genotyping and exome data and considered 28 blood biomarkers levels as target phenotypes.

Green and blue spaces were inversely associated with the hazard of NAFLD. The beneficial effects of approximately 25-52 % of green space exposure and about 5-35 % of blue space exposure were mediated by the reduction of PM 2.5 , NO 2 and NO x.

Leukocyte telomere length (LTL) is associated with a wide variety of diseases, including cancer. Findings regarding the association between LTL and the risk for lung cancer have been inconclusive and inconsistent across previous observational studies. This prospective cohort study included data from 425,146 participants.

Carriers of the 1q21.1 distal and 15q11.2 BP1-BP2 copy number variants exhibit regional and global brain differences compared with noncarriers. Intraindividual variability measures can be used to test for regional differences beyond global differences in brain structure.

The Positional Burrows-Wheeler Transform (PBWT) is a data structure that enables finding maximal haplotype matches in h sequences containing w variation sites in O(hw) time. The original PBWT data structure does not allow for queries over Biobank panels that consist of several millions of haplotypes.

The authors aimed to determine the risk of mortality and composite cardiomyopathy-related outcomes associated with predicted deleterious variants. They used whole exome sequencing data from the UK Biobank. CMP-G+ individuals had higher risk for all-cause mortality.

The data used in the study were obtained from the UK Biobank, a database that contains information collected from 502 389 participants between March 2006 and October 2010. Based on domestic and international guidelines for lung cancer screening and high-quality research literature, high-risk population identification criteria were determined. Cox proportional hazards regression was performed to identify 10 independent variables as predictors of lung cancer, including age, body mass index (BMI), education, income, physical activity, smoking status, alcohol consumption frequency, fresh fruit intake, family history of cancer, and tobacco exposure.

Physical activity (PA) and telomeres both contribute to healthy aging and longevity. To investigate the optimal dosage of various PA for longevity and the role of telomere length in PA and mortality, we analyzed 333,865 adults from the UK Biobank.

The Brain Health Index (BHI) is an automated approach to quantifying brain integrity. Normative values derived from generally healthy individuals provide a vital baseline for understanding neurodegenerative change. The scale and quality of the UK Biobank imaging cohort allows for derivation of such values.

Genetic studies of platelet reactivity (PR) phenotypes may identify novel antiplatelet drug targets. Such studies have been limited by small sample sizes (n)

Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a common and severely morbid chronic inflammatory skin disease that is reported to be highly heritable. Few genome-wide association studies have been performed for HS, which have not identified significant risk loci. This genetic association study recruited 753 patients with HS in the HS Program for Research and Care Excellence.

Cancer meQTLs near known cancer genes were analyzed for association with cancer risk in the UKBioBank and prognosis in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) In TAD boundary regions, the density of cancer meQ TLs was higher near inactive TADs. Risk and survival-associated me QTLs tended to affect cancer genes involved in DNA damage repair and cellular adhesion.

We used 24 h PA time series from 96,351 UK Biobank participants aged between 42 and 79 years at accelerometry in 2013-2015. Four distinct fPCs accounted for 96% of the variation of the accelerometry data. Using a loading score of zero (i.e., average overall PA during the day) as the reference, a fPC1 score of + 2 was inversely associated with mortality.

Many sequence variants have additive effects on blood lipid levels and, through that, on the risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) We show that variants also have non-additive effects and interact to affect lipid levels as well as affecting variance and correlations. Variance and correlation effects are often signatures of epistasis or gene-environmental interactions.

Study of 140 214 unrelated UK Biobank (UKB) participants found that each of them carries a median of 7 variants previously reported as pathogenic or likely pathogenic. We focused on 967 diagnostic-grade gene (DGG) variants for rare bleeding, thrombotic, and platelet disorders. By association analysis, we estimated effect sizes for platelet count and volume.

Reaction time variability (RTV) has been proposed as an endophenotype for many neuropsychiatric disorders. There have been no large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of RTV and little is known about its genetic underpinnings. We used data from the UK Biobank to conduct a GWAS in participants of white British ancestry (n = 404,302) as well as a trans-ancestry GWAS meta-analysis.

Study aims to examine the association between the rest-activity rhythm (RAR) and the incidence of type 2 diabetes (T2D) 97 503 participants without diabetes in the UK Biobank cohort were recruited.

Daily-life gait speed, quantity and quality, derived from wrist-worn sensors, are significant predictors of injurious falls in older people. Digital gait biomarkers could potentially be used to identify fall risk in screening programs and integrated into fall prevention strategies.

Vigorous physical activity is a time-efficient way to achieve recommended physical activity (PA) for cancer prevention. But structured longer bouts of VPA (via traditional exercise) are unappealing or inaccessible to many individuals. This was a prospective cohort analysis of 22 398 self-reported nonexercising adults.

Longer leukocyte telomere length (LTL) is associated with a lower risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes. The extent to which variation in LTL is. associated with intermediary cardiovascular phenotypes is unclear. Longer LTL was independently associated. with a pattern of positive cardiac remodeling (higher left ventricular mass, larger. global ventricular size and volume, and higher ventricular and atrial stroke volumes)

Inadequate representation of non-European ancestry populations in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) has limited opportunities to isolate functional variants. Fine-mapping in multi-ancestry populations should improve the efficiency of prioritizing variants for functional interrogation. Significant overlap in genetic causal variants across populations suggests generalizability of genetic mechanisms underpinning obesity-related traits.

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) genetics could enable timely screening and promote individualized disease risk prognostication. This was a cross-sectional, population-based study conducted from 2006 to 2010.

Genetic factors are not included in prediction models for coronary heart disease (CHD) The authors assessed whether the risks due to monogenic familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) and family history (FamHx) are independent of and additive to the polygenic risk score (PRS)

Childhood adversity and lifestyle have been associated with frailty in later life. Not much is known about factors that may explain these associations. This study aims to investigate the association of childhood adversity and frailty, and the mediating role of unhealthy lifestyle in the association.

Germline pathogenic loss-of-function (pLOF) variants in DICER1 are associated with a predisposition for a variety of solid neoplasms, including pleuropulmonary blastoma and Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor (SLCT) Some patients with SLCT have no pLOF variants detected by germline or tumor testing.

Prioritizing genes for translation to therapeutics for common diseases has been challenging. We find 98 BEST genes for a variety of indications. Drugs targeting those genes are 3.8-fold more likely to be approved than non-BEST genes.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a leading cause of chronic liver disease. NAFLD results from environmental exposures acting on a susceptible polygenic background. This study performed the largest multiethnic investigation of exonic variation associated with NAFLd and correlated metabolic traits and diseases.

Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) is considered the leading cause of mortality worldwide. Arterial stiffness, measured by arterial stiffness index (ASI), could be a main predictor in target damage of organs. Uncertainty remains regarding the contribution of ASI to estimated ASCVD risk.

Mendelian Randomization is a popular method to estimate causal effects in genomic studies. Recently, there has been much research in instrumental variable (IV) selection. In this paper, we focus on IV selection and adopt nonparametric variable selection approaches.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are not fully comprehensive, as current strategies typically test only the additive model, exclude the X chromosome, and use only one reference panel. We implement an extensive GWAS strategy, GUIDANCE, which improves genotype imputation by using multiple reference panels.

 GWASs for atopic dermatitis have identified 25 reproducible loci. We attempt to prioritize the candidate causal genes at these loci using extensive molecular resources compiled into a bioinformatics pipeline. At eight loci, we were able to prioritize a single candidate gene.

Previous studies have investigated whether milk consumption has a role in preventing the development of cognitive impairment, but the results were inconsistent. This study aimed to examine the associations between different types of milk consumption and the risk of dementia. Of 307,271 participants included in the study, 3789 (1.2%) incident all-cause dementia cases were observed over a median follow-up of 12.3 years.

Protein-truncating variants (PTVs) affecting dyslipidemia risk may point to therapeutic targets for cardiometabolic disease. Our objective was to identify PTVs that were associated with both lipid levels and the risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) or type 2 diabetes (T2D)

There is no consensus about which single nucleotide polymorphisms must be investigated when properly assessing association between ABO locus and VT risk. Compared with the O1 haplotype, the A2 haplotype is associated with a modest increase in VT risk (odds ratio, &#8764;1.2) The A1 and B haplotypes are associated with an &# 8764; 1.8-fold increased risk, whereas the O2 tends to be slightly protective.

In this community-based cohort study, we investigated the relationship between combinations of modifiable lifestyle risk factors and infectious disease mortality. Participants were 468,569 men and women (56.5 +/- 8.1, 54.6% women) residing in the United Kingdom. Meeting public health guidelines or best practice recommendations was inversely associated with mortality.

Previous studies have failed to definitively establish a causal relationship between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) concentrations and the onset of rosacea. This cross-sectional population-based cohort study utilizing 370,209 individuals from the UK Biobank.

Osteocytes are master regulators of the skeleton. We mapped the transcriptome of osteocytes from different skeletal sites, across age and sexes in mice to reveal genes and molecular programs that control this complex cellular-network. We showed osteocyte transcriptome signature genes are enriched for human orthologs that cause monogenic skeletal disorders.

Autism has previously been characterized by both structural and functional differences in brain connectivity. We introduce a technique of deriving symmetric similarity matrices from regional histograms of grey matter volumes estimated from T1-weighted MRIs. We then validated the technique by inputting the similarity matrix into a convolutional neural network (CNN) to classify between participants with autism and age-, motion-, and intracranial-volume-matched controls.

Multiple independently associated SNPs within a linkage disequilibrium region are a common phenomenon. Conditional analysis has been successful in identifying secondary signals. 'quasi-adaptive' method was applied to GWAS on free thyroxine (FT4), inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and human height.

A polygenic risk score (PRS) derived from variants most associated with schizophrenia was increased 5-fold in individuals who experienced complications during pregnancy or birth. Follow-up gene expression analysis showed that the genes mapping to the most associated genetic variants are highly expressed in placental tissues. If confirmed, these findings will have major implications in our understanding of the joint effect of genes and environment in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.

The thalamus is a vital communication hub in the center of the brain and consists of distinct nuclei critical for consciousness and higher-order cortical functions. Structural and functional thalamic alterations are involved in the pathogenesis of common brain disorders. Here, we identify 55 lead single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within 42 genetic loci and 391 genes associated with volumes of theThalamus.

Human height is a polygenic trait, influenced by a large number of genomic loci. In the pre-genomic era, height prediction was based largely on parental height. We assessed the predictive power of polygenic risk scores (PRS) combined with the traditional parental height predictors.

We investigated the dynamic properties of the organism state fluctuations along individual aging trajectories. We used a log-linear mortality estimate from the CBC variables as a single quantitative measure of the aging process. The criticality resulting in the end of life is an intrinsic biological property of an organism that is independent of stress factors.

Many genetic and phenotypic risk factors for colorectal cancer have been identified. These are not currently used by population screening programs. Using risk to determine FIT screening start age could improve the clinical outcomes and cost effectiveness.

Children whose mothers smoked during pregnancy had greater risk of being shorter or plumper at age ten in the full UK Biobank White cohort. Similar associations were identified in the South Asian and Black ethnicities. Findings strongly encourage mothers to quit smoking during pregnancy for improving growth and development.

In the UK Biobank, prediagnostic serum levels of total bilirubin were measured in blood samples collected from 440,948 participants. After a median follow-up of 7.1 years (interquartile range: 1.4), 5033 incident gastrointestinal cancer cases were recorded. In multivariable-adjusted models, bilirUBin levels were negatively associated with risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma and positively associated with HCC and IBD cancer.

We estimated penetrance through large-scale analyses of individuals referred for diagnostic sequencing for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and dilated cardiopathy (DCM) Penetrance was significantly higher for variant subgroups annotated as loss of function or ultra-rare and for males compared to females for variants in HCM-associated genes. Median penetrance was 14.6% (+/-14.4% SD)

The identification of metabolic biomarkers for aging-related diseases and mortality is of significant interest in the field of longevity. In this study, we investigated the associations between nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) metabolomics biomarkers and aging- related diseases as well as mortality. The most significant biomarker was intermediate density lipoprotein cholesteryl (IDL-CE)

Mobile health applications have been developed to increase physical activity. But they are rarely grounded on behavioural theory. In this work, we propose a theoretically driven and personalised behavioural intervention delivered through an adaptive knowledge-based system.

Lifestyle-related factors are recognized as snoring risk factors, but the role of genetics in snoring remains uncertain. One way to measure the impact of genetic risk is through the use of a polygenic risk score (PRS) In this study, we aimed to investigate whether genetics plays a role inSnoring after adjusting for lifestyle factors.

Polygenicity refers to the phenomenon that multiple genetic variants have a nonzero effect on a complex trait. Evaluation of polygenicity can provide valuable insights into the genetic architecture of the trait. We introduce a Bayesian approach genepoly to estimate this quantity for a trait.

Study looked at 8,798 SNPs from 190 DNA repair genes and 11 demographic/behavioral risk factors. Eleven SNPs were significantly associated with BCC, three of which were also associated with M-inv. Major individual factors were significant mediators for all skin cancers.

Population-based, prospective cohort study included 468 885 UK Biobank participants free of CVD at baseline. Fat mass and muscle mass were estimated using a bioelectrical impedance assessment device. FMR was calculated as fat mass divided by muscle mass in corresponding body parts. During 12.5 years of follow-up, we documented 49 936 CVD cases and 4158 CVD deaths.

We studied 4,129 T2D individuals with microvascular complications at baseline. Over a median follow-up of 11.7 years, a total of 1,180 cases of incident ASCVD were documented. After multivariable-adjustment, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) level was linearly associated with a decreased risk of ASCVD.

Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging is a powerful modality in functional and anatomical assessment for various cardiovascular diseases. A large number of medical images, the variety of imaging artefacts, and the workload of imaging centres are among the factors that reveal the necessity of automatic image quality assessment. However, automated IQA requires access to bulk annotated datasets for training deep learning (DL) models.

Multimorbidity is associated with reduced wellbeing and life expectancy. This study seeks to assess the causality of education, BMI, smoking and alcohol. We used a Mendelian randomization design to interrogate causality.

There is a paucity of evidence on the risk of sudden cardiac death (SCD) according to the degree of neuroticism. We sought to evaluate the association between neuroticism and the long-term risk of SCD.

Little is known about genetic interactions that may influence bladder cancer (BC) risk. We identified 10 statistically significant pairs of SNPs, which located in 17 chromosomes. Four SNP-SNP interactions were found to be positively associated with BC risk among Caucasian participants. Only four interactions were consistently identified in non-Caucasian participants located in ST7L-ADSS2, FHIT-CHDH, LARP4B-LHPP and RBFOX3-MPRIP. We used the selected interactions to build a BC screening model.

Peripheral immune markers have been associated with the progression and prognosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Whether dysregulation of peripheral immunity is a risk factor for ALS or a consequence of motor neuron degeneration has not yet been clarified. We aimed to identify longitudinal associations between prediagnostic peripheral immunity and the risk of incident ALS.

ONECUT1 (also known as HNF6) is a transcription factor involved in pancreatic development and &#946;-cell function. Recently, biallelic variants in ONECut1 were reported as a cause of neonatal diabetes mellitus (NDM) and type 2 diabetes.

 Epidemiological studies have identified an inverse association between cancer and dementia. No studies systematically investigated the potential for each source of bias within a single dataset. We used the UK Biobank to compare estimates for the cancer-dementia association.

PMR/GCA cases were more likely to report poor general health and at least several days of low mood in the past 2 weeks. PMR was associated with hypothyroidism and ever-use of HRT. Hypertension and cataract, both of which can be exacerbated by long-term glucocorticoid therapy, were over-represented.

There is a widespread notion that tobacco smoking controls weight based on the appetite suppressive effect of nicotine. However, the causal relationship between smoking initiation and obesity-related traits in the general population is unclear. This analysis utilized 378 genetic variants associated with tobacco smoking initiation.

Identifying gene-by-environment interactions (GxE) is crucial to understand the interplay of environmental effects on complex traits. Current methods evaluating GxE on biobank-scale datasets have limitations. We introduce MonsterLM, a multiple linear regression method that does not rely on model specification.

UK Biobank was established from 2006 to 2010 in the United Kingdom. Functional auditory capacity was measured with a digit triplet test. 9 chronic diseases were considered, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, dementia, Parkinson's disease, stroke, cancer, depression, osteoarthritis, coronary heart disease, and diabetes.

Nicotine-dependence-related genetic loci are among the most replicable genetic findings. It is computationally challenging for existing fine-mapping methods to reliably identify causal variants. We propose a new method to select SNPs by jointly modeling the SNP-wise inference results and the underlying structured network patterns of the linkage disequilibrium (LD) matrix.

Many chronic disease symptomatologies involve desynchronized sleep-wake cycles. This can be interrogated using body temperature rhythms. We investigated the association of wrist temperature amplitudes with a future onset of disease in the UK Biobank.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is the fastest-growing neurological condition with over 10 million cases worldwide. While age and sex are known predictors of incident PD, there is a need to identify other predictors. This study compares the prediction performance of accelerometry-derived physical activity (PA) measures and traditional risk factors for incident PD in the UK Biobank.

The corpus callosum (CC) is a brain structure with a high heritability and potential role in psychiatric disorders. The genetic architecture of the CC and the genetic link with psychiatric disorders remain largely unclear. We investigated the genetic architectures of the volume of theCC and its subregions. We found significant genetic correlations of total CC volume with bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder.

Excess sedentary time is recognized as an important modifiable risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD) This study included 77,500 White British (57% female) with valid wrist-worn accelerometry and without prevalent CHD/stroke from UK Biobank. Replacing any amount of ST with an equal amount of MVPA time is associated with a lower relative risk of CHD.

Myeloid neoplasms encompass acute myeloid leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative neoplasm. Most cases arise from the shared ancestor of clonal hematopoiesis (CH) Here we analyze data from 454,340 UK Biobank participants.

Atrophy related to multiple sclerosis (MS) has been found at the early stages of the disease. We modeled the volumetric trajectories of brain structures across the entire lifespan using 40,944 subjects. The thalamus was the most impacted structure with a very early divergence in life.

The relationship between high plasma high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and cause and mortality are not well established in healthy older people. Higher HDL-C levels are associated with increased risk from cancer and "non-cancer non-CVD" mortality inhealthy older men but no such relationship was observed in women.

The association of a healthy lifestyle with the prognosis of type 2 diabetes remains uncertain. A healthy lifestyle and a higher American Heart Association's Life's Essential 8 score were associated with lower risks of macrovascular and microvascular diseases. Adhering to an ideal lifestyle may prevent 37.0% of Macrovascular disease and 24.7% of Microvascular Disease.

Traditional modifiable cardiovascular risk factors, such as high blood pressure, have long been positively correlated with high carotid intima-media thickness (cIMT) This study found that the cardiovascular risk profile generally worsened across the cIMT quantiles from lowest to highest.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a polygenic neurodegenerative disorder. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in multiple genes have been associated with AD. None of them were characterized as causal variants that indicate the complex genetic architecture of AD, which is likely affected by individual variants and their interactions.

Low/moderate-intensity statins and ezetimibe was projected to lead to a gain in quality-adjusted life-years of 0.067 per person initiated at 30 and 0.026 at age 60 years. Initiating therapy at 40 years of age was the most cost effective for all lipid-lowering strategies.

Handgrip strength (HGS) and skeletal muscle mass (SMM) were measured in type 2 diabetes (T2DM) patients. Baseline survey was conducted between 2006 and 2010, and followed up for a median of 12.52 years. Risk for all-cause mortality and CVD mortality among both men and women increased progressively with decreasing HGS quartiles. Grip strength displayed a linear downward trend with mortality risk among T2DM patients.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) were performed for T2 (T2) versus non-T2 asthma. High BEC was associated with asthma and decreased pulmonary function. Genetic variants associated with BEC and asthma were not associated with severity.

Hip minimum joint space width (mJSW) provides a proxy for cartilage thickness. Study aimed to identify new genetic determinants of mJSW. 42 SNPs, which mapped to 39 loci, were identified.

Optimal lung repair and regeneration are essential for recovery from viral infections, including influenza A virus (IAV) We have previously demonstrated that acute inflammation and mortality induced by IAV is under circadian control. We show that lung organoids have a functional circadian clock and the disruption of this clock impairs regenerative capacity.

The separate effects of cooked and raw vegetable intake remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the associations between cooked andRaw vegetable intake with cardiovascular outcomes using MR. Raw vegetable intake was nominally associated with stroke, but this did not pass the corrected significance level.

IGF-1 deficiency has been consistently reported in animal studies. Relationship between IGF-1 and human brain health remains controversial. Our study aimed to investigate the associations of serum IGF- 1 concentrations with some brain-related disorders and neuroimaging features.

C-reactive protein (CRP) tends to be elevated in individuals with psychiatric disorders. We investigated the shared genetic underpinnings of psychiatric disorders and variation in CRP levels. We identified 401 genetic loci jointly associated with CRP and psychiatric disorders with mixed effect directions.

Plant-based diets have been associated with a lower risk of several chronic diseases, but the relationship with PD is unknown. We examined the association of three different plant-based diet indices with PD incidence in the UK Biobank cohort.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) severity is determined by levels of both estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and the urine albumin to creatinine ratio (ACR) Whether there is a graded increase in dementia risk for worse eGFR in each ACR category is unclear.

Individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) tend to experience lower well-being. This study aims to investigate if a genetic predisposition for ASD is associated with 5-WBS traits using polygenic risk score (PRS) analysis. PRS for ASD were calculated based on the latest genome-wide association study of ASD.

Mendelian randomization studies report a bi-directional relation between cigarette smoking and mental disorders. We calculated polygenic risk scores (PRS) for ever smoking, pack-years of smoking as a proportion of adult life, and neuroticism in 337,140 UK Biobank participants of white British ancestry. These PRS and self-reported smoking status were entered as explanatory variables in survival models for hospitalization.

The impact of allergic phenotypes on mid- or late-life health is less discussed. We conducted observational studies and mendelian randomization (MR) analysis. Based on the UKB data, AD, asthma and EC were positively correlated with pre-sarcopenia and decreased skeletal muscle mass index.

Cardiovascular ageing is a process that begins early in life and leads to a progressive change in structure and decline in function. Damaging biophysical, metabolic and immunological factors exceed endogenous repair mechanisms resulting in a pro-fibrotic state. The genetic architecture of cardiovascular ageing is not known.

Cadaveric studies have shown disease-related neurodegeneration and other morphological abnormalities in the retina of individuals with Parkinson disease (PD) It remains unclear whether this can be reliably detected with in vivo imaging. We investigated inner retinal anatomy, measured using optical coherence tomography (OCT), in prevalent PD and assessed the association of these markers with the development of PD.

Study included 212,968 participants from the UK Biobank, aged &#8805;60 years. Participants who regularly used paracetamol had a significantly higher risk of new-onset all-cause dementia.

A total of 452,996 UK Biobank participants with calculated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and albumin-to-creatinine ratio (ACR) were included. During a median follow-up of 12 years, 5,258 incident ACD cases were identified. The deterioration of kidney function was associated with an increased risk of ACD.

Short-term randomized trials have demonstrated that replacing saturated fat (SFA) with polyunsaturated fat (PUFA) causes a reduction or prevention of liver fat accumulation. But population-based studies on diet and body fat distribution are limited. We investigated cross-sectional associations between diet, circulating fatty acids and liver fat and other fat depots.

Severe hypercholesterolemia is associated with increased risk for coronary artery disease (CAD) Causes include monogenic familial hypercholesterol, polygenic hyperch cholesterol, elevated lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] hypercholesteremia, or nongenetic. Study looked at incident CAD risk among 130 091 UK Biobank participants.

We aimed to analyse whether patients with ischaemic stroke (IS) occurring within eight days after the onset of COVID-19 (IS-COV) are associated with a specific aetiology of IS. Three genomic regions were associated ( p -value  PITX2, HS6ST1 and RFFL) with IS. A statistically significant PRS was observed for LAA. Our results suggest that IS-COv cases are genetically similar to LAA and CES subtypes.

Platelets are a rich source of profibrotic TGF&#946; however, the role of platelets in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is unclear. We identified that patients with IPF have significantly more platelets, neutrophils, and active T GF&# 946; in their airways than control patients. Using an animal model of IPF, we demonstrated that platelet-derived TGF &#9 46; does not significantly drive lung fibrosis or inflammation.

We investigated the association of HbA1c levels with COPD risk in the general population. We used data from 420 065 participants in the UK Biobank. During a median follow-up of 12.3 years, 11 556 COPD cases were recorded. The findings indicated that lower and higher Hb a 1c levels were associated with a higher risk of COPD.

Most loci currently associated with kidney function are still limited to European ancestry. We set out to identify susceptibility loci associated with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFRcrea) in 80027 individuals of African-ancestry. We identified 8 lead SNPs, 7 of which were previously associated with eGFR.

Late diurnal preference is often associated with circadian misalignment. This means that evening people live more frequently against their internal clock. Study aims to quantify the causal contribution of diurnal preferences on mental health outcomes.

Age-related hearing impairment (ARHI) is the most common sensory disorder in older adults. We conducted a genome-wide association meta-analysis of 121,934 ARHI cases and 591,699 controls from Iceland and the UK. We identified 21 novel sequence variants, of which 13 are rare, under either additive or recessive models.

Parent-of-origin (PoO) effects refer to the differential phenotypic impacts of genetic variants dependent on their parental inheritance due to imprinting. While PoO effects can influence complex traits, they may be poorly captured by models that do not differentiate the parental origin of the variant. The aim of this study was to conduct a genome-wide screen for PoO effect on a broad range of clinical traits derived from electronic health records (EHR)

UK Biobank study uses mendelian randomization approach to mitigate variability and confounding that has affected previous analyses. Systolic BP (SBP) and diastolic BP polygenic risk scores (PRSs) were calculated using summary statistics. Genetic propensity for high SBP had an approximately linear association with worsened fluid intelligence.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a major cause of disability and mortality in older adults. This study aimed to investigate the association of AD with education and genetic factors. Genetic risk was assessed using a polygenic risk score for AD. The educational level was categorized as either low, intermediate, or high.

 minority ethnic groups in the UK are known to have poorer COVID-19 outcomes, but also an increased prevelance of certain comorbidities associated with severe outcomes. Despite the prevalence of certain psychiatric disorders there is a lack of research establishing their relationship with outcomes. We used UK Biobank data, involving 472,182 participants.

Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is a maternally inherited, high-copy-number genome required for oxidative phosphorylation. Heteroplasmy refers to the presence of a mixture of mtDNA alleles in an individual and has been associated with disease and ageing. Mechanisms underlying common variation in human heteroplas my, and the influence of the nuclear genome on this variation, remain insufficiently explored.

Little is known about the extent and magnitude of variability in the amino acid composition of the proglucagon precursor and its mature peptides. We identified 184 unique missense variants in the human progLucagon gene GCG obtained from exome and whole-genome sequencing of more than 450,000 individuals.

The pharmacological management of musculoskeletal pain starts with NSAIDs, followed by weak or strong opioids until the pain is under control. The treatment outcome is usually unsatisfying due to inter-individual differences. To investigate the genetic component of treatment outcome differences, we performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in 23,000 participants.

FastKAST is a kernel-based approach that can test for non-linear effects of a set of variants on a quantitative trait. We apply FastKAST to 53 quantitative traits measured across &#8776; 300 K unrelated white British individuals in the UK Biobank.

Diet is increasingly recognized as an important risk factor for mental health. We aimed to investigate the associations of dietary patterns characterized by a set of nutrients of interest with depressive and anxiety symptoms. The analyses included a total of 126,819 participants in the UK Biobank who had completed at least two dietary questionnaires.

Metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) is a condition characterized by liver fat accumulation and metabolic abnormalities. It is important to understand its association with major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) such as myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke. In this study, we analyzed the data of 325,129 participants in the UK Biobank and calculated relative risks for MI and stroke using Cox regression analysis.

UK Biobank followed 191 970 dementia-free participants for 16 years to detect incident dementia. Compared to normal kidney function, there was an increased risk of dementia with moderate to severely impaired kidney function. Impaired kidney function is associated with about 50% increased risk.

Studies have suggested a protective role for eosinophils in colorectal cancer (CRC) development and implicated neutrophils, but the causal relationships remain unclear. Here, we aimed to estimate the causal effect of circulating white blood cell (WBC) counts (N = ~550 000) on CRC risk.

Pernicious anemia is a rare condition characterized by vitamin B12 deficiency anemia due to lack of intrinsic factor. It is often caused by autoimmune gastritis. Patients with it have a higher incidence of other autoimmune disorders, such as type 1 diabetes, vitiligo and autoimmune thyroid issues.

Large-scale and high-dimensional genome sequencing data poses computational challenges. General-purpose optimization tools are usually not optimal in terms of computational and memory performance for genetic data. We take advantage of this fact and use two bits to represent each entry in a genetic matrix.

Global ultra-processed food (UPF) consumption has risen rapidly. The development and prognosis of depression and anxiety remain unclarified. We aimed to examine the association between UPF consumption and the incidence and progression trajectory of depression.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) was associated with elevated risk of cardiometabolic diseases in observational studies. We aimed to evaluate the observational and genetic associations of Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) with multiple cardiometric outcomes. More than 400 000 participants who were free of major cardiovascular disease and diabetes at recruitment were followed up until December 2019.

We theorize that changes in genetic effects by social conditions depend on the level of resource constraints. We explored several sex-specific G×C trends across a set of outcomes using 30 birth cohorts of UK Biobank data. We find that genetic coefficients on years of schooling and secondary educational attainment substantially decrease.

Age-related clonal expansion of cells harbouring mosaic chromosomal alterations (mCAs) is one manifestation of clonal haematopoiesis. Identifying factors that influence the generation and promotion of mCAs are key to investigate the role of m CAs in health and disease. Herein, we report on widely measured serum biomarkers and their possible association with mC as.

A large international meta-analysis using primary data from 64 cohorts has quantified the increased risk of fracture associated with a previous history of fracture for future use in FRAX. Low BMD explained a minority of the risk for any clinical fracture (14%), osteoporotic fracture (17%), and for hip fracture.

Among 427,435 people, CVD rates were 16.9 and 9.1 events/1000 person-years for men and women. Men and women with pre-diabetes, undiagnosed diabetes, and diagnosed diabetes were at higher risks of CVD than those with normal HbA1c. Excess risks could be ameliorated by attention to weight reduction strategies.

The associations of oral contraceptive (OC) use with cardiovascular disease (CVD) and all-cause death remains unclear. This cohort study included 161 017 women who had no CVD at baseline and reported their OC use. No significant associations of OC use with CVD death, myocardial infarction, or stroke were observed.

The effects of air pollutants on cardiometabolic diseases (CMDs) have been widely explored. We employed the UK Biobank cohort (N = 317,160) to study the association between six air pollutants and four CMDs. CMM was defined as occurrence of two or more of the four diseases.

Misclassification of diabetes type occurs in people with atypical presentations of type 1 diabetes (T1D) or type 2 diabetes ( t2D) Current clinical guidelines suggest clinical variables and treatment response as ways to help differentiate diabetes type. This work aimed to assess the clinical utility of 2 polygenic scores (PGSs) in differentiating between T1D and T2D.

Research suggests that posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) may be a risk factor for poor cardiovascular health. Our understanding of who might be at greatest risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes after trauma is limited. In this study, we conducted the first examination of the individual and synergistic contributions of PTSD symptoms and blood pressure genetics to continuous blood pressure levels.

Weight gain and metabolic complications are major adverse effects of many psychotropic drugs. We aimed to understand how socio-economic status (SES) is associated with cardiometabolic parameters after initiation of psychotropic medications. The SSEP integrated neighborhood-based income, education, occupation, and housing condition.

Using severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) positive participants from the UK Biobank, we developed and validated a clinical and genetic model to predict risk of severe COVID-19. Accurate prediction of individual risk is possible and will be important in regions where vaccines are not widely available or where people refuse or are disqualified from vaccination.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and depression are debilitating brain disorders that are often comorbid. As both disorders are (partly) heritable, characterising their genetic overlap may provide aetiological clues. Previous studies have indicated negligible genetic correlations. This study aims to expose the genetic overlap that may remain hidden.

Recent studies have implicated important roles for endolysosomal ion channels in cancer biology. We used UK Biobank data to characterise the relationships between genetic variants in TPCN2 and P2RX4 and cancer. We investigated these relationships at both global and local levels.

Endometriosis, polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and uterine fibroids have been proposed as endometrial cancer risk factors. Using genome-wide association study (GWAS) data, we explored the relationships between these non-cancerous gynecological diseases and endometrian cancer risk. We found significant genetic correlation between endometricrial cancer and PCOS, and  uterine fibroids.

Migraine is three times more prevalent in people with bipolar disorder or depression. The relationship between schizophrenia and migraine is less certain although glutamatergic and serotonergic neurotransmission are implicated in both. A shared genetic basis to migraine and mental disorders has been suggested but previous studies have reported weak or non-significant genetic correlations.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is defined differently across genetic research studies and this may be a key source of heterogeneity. Thirty-two depression phenotypes which incorporate different combinations of MDD components were created using mental health questionnaire data within the UK Biobank. SNP-based heritabilities and genetic correlations with three previously defined major depression phenotype were calculated.

Polygenic Risk Scores (PRS) for AD offer unique possibilities for reliable identification of individuals at high and low risk of AD. Little agreement in the field as to what approach should be used for genetic risk score calculations. Best prediction accuracy is achieved with a model with two predictors (APOE and PRS excluding APOE region) with pT.

Some studies suggest that occupational physical activity (OPA) may not confer health benefits. The purpose of this study was to investigate associations between OPA and mortality outcomes. 460,901 UK Biobank participants (aged 40-69 years) were followed for a median 12.0 years.

 genome-wide association studies have proven useful for investigating liver biology. The rare missense variant SLC30A10 Thr95Ile associates with the largest elevation of both enzymes. Carriers also have increased risk of extrahepatic bile duct cancer.

Alcohol consumption was associated with all assessed outcomes in a J-shaped manner relative to current non-drinkers. No statistically significant elevated risks were found at higher levels of drinking. For secondary prevention of CVD, current drinkers may not need to stop drinking.

A 1 mph (i.e., 1.6 kph) increase in self-reported habitual walking pace corresponds to a 63% (hazard ratio (HR) = 0.37, 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.25-0.55) reduction in coronary artery disease risk. We used a latent variable framework throughout to model walking pace as a continuous exposure, which provided more robust and interpretable causal effect estimates. Our findings suggest that interventions that seek to encourage individuals to walk more briskly should lead to protective effects.

Rare copy number variants (CNVs) and polygenic risk for intelligence (PRS-IQ) both confer susceptibility for autism spectrum disorder (ASD) but have opposing effects on cognitive ability. The field has struggled to disentangle the effects of these two classes of genomic variants on Cognitive ability from their effects on ASD susceptibility. In a cohort of 8,426 subjects with ASD and 169,804 controls with cognitive assessments, we found that rare CNVs increased ASD risk.

Proteomics may discover pathophysiological changes related to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) HCC is an aggressive and lethal type of cancer with low sensitivity for early-stage diagnosis.

The association between alcohol consumption and the risk of sudden cardiac death and/or fatal ventricular arrhythmia remains controversial. We identified 397,164 individuals enrolled between 2006 and 2010 from the UK Biobank database and followed them until 2021. There was no prognostic difference among nondrinkers, mild drinkers, moderate drinkers, and heavy drinkers.

Cross-sectional study included 437,860 participants from the UK Biobank. Good adherence to a healthy diet was defined as the top 75th percentile, while poor adherence wasdefined as the lowest 25th percentile. There were significant trends whereby diet scores tended to be less healthy as deprivation markers increased.

UK Biobank data collected from 365,307 participants who were free of back pain at baseline. The associations between all types of physical activity and incident back pain were significantly non-linear. Substituting sedentary behaviours with physical activities reduced the risk of future back pain.

For every one-unit increase in body mass index, the risk of incident multimorbidity increased by 5.2% (95% confidence interval 5.0%-5.4%). Hip circumference and hip-to-height ratio had protective effects on multimorbridity onset. Consistent findings were observed for males and females.

The Oxidative Balance Score (OBS) is commonly used to assess oxidative stress. There is limited research on the association between OBS and colorectal cancer (CRC), its subsites, and complications. We included data from 175,808 participants in the UK Biobank data sample repository from 2006 to 2010.

PhenoAge is a measure of biological aging processes in the body. It could provide an alternative way to assessing aging-related cancer risks. People with higher PhenoAge scores had a roughly 25 percent higher risk of developing cancer.

Study examines the association between traditional cardiovascular health (CVH) metrics and major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) incidence in individuals with diverse sleep patterns. Sleep patterns were assessed using scores for chronotype, duration, insomnia, snoring, and daytime dozing.

Heart failure (HF) is a serious condition with increasing prevalence, high morbidity, and increased mortality. Obesity is an established risk factor for HF. Fluctuation in body mass index (BMI) has shown a higher risk of cardiovascular outcomes. We investigated the association between BMI variability and incident HF.

 353 742 adults of European ancestry were recruited from 2006 to 2010. They were followed up until 2021 with a median follow-up of 12.86 years. Participants were grouped into three genetically determined lifespan categories including long (20.1%), intermediate (60.1%) and short (19.8%)

The Tsimane, indigenous to the Bolivian Amazon, derive their subsistence from foraging and horticulture. The Moseten, a mixed-ethnicity farming population, are physically active but less than theTsimane. Within both populations, some parietal and occipital structures mediating visuospatial abilities exhibit small but significant increases in regional volume with age.

Women recruited to the UK Biobank cohort during 2006-2010 were followed up from their first delivery until 31 October 2021. After adjusting for confounders and behavioural factors, GDM was associated with increased risk for premature mortality.

Sarcopenia may increase non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) risk, but prevalence likely varies with different diagnostic criteria. This study examined the prevalence of sarcopenia and its defining components in adults with and without NAFLD.

Biological age (BA) serves as both a precursor and a predictor of age-related diseases. We measured whether there was a longitudinal association between drinking frequency and pure alcohol intake with BA among middle-aged and older people. More frequent drinkers exhibited increased accelerated BA.

Dementia has a long prodromal stage with various pathophysiological manifestations. The progression of pre-diagnostic changes remains unclear. We aimed to determine the evolutional trajectories of multiple-domain clinical assessments and health conditions up to 15 years before the diagnosis.

Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are commonly used for gastric acid-related disorders. Their safety profile and risk stratification for high-burden diseases need further investigation. PPI use correlated with increased risk of 15 leading global diseases.

Knowing how circadian rhythm influences brain health remains limited. We aimed to investigate the associations of accelerometer-measured circadian rest-activity rhythm (CRAR) with incident dementia, cognitive dysfunction, and structural brain abnormalities in the general population.

Common variants of the max-like protein X (MLX)-interacting protein-like gene have been shown to be associated with plasma triglyceride levels. The role of these variants in steatotic liver disease (SLD) is unclear. Carriers of MLXIPL Gln241His were associated with significantly lower serum levels of triglycerides and apolipoprotein-B.

Essential tremor (ET) is a prevalent neurological disorder with a largely unknown underlying biology. In this genome-wide association study meta-analysis, comprising 16,480 ET cases and 1,936,173 controls from seven datasets, we identify 12 sequence variants at 11 loci. We highlight seven putative causal genes at these loci, including CA3 and CPLX1.

Hypertension is a leading risk factor for cardiovascular disease and is modulated by genetic variants. Study aimed to assess the effect of obesity genetic liability and physical activity on hypertension among European and African ancestry individuals within the UK Biobank.

Genetic variants that severely alter protein products are often associated with disease. For some genes, these predicted loss-of-function variants (pLoFs) are observed throughout the gene. In others, they occur only at specific locations. We investigated whether pLoF location could explain instances of incomplete penetrance of variants expected to be pathogenic for Mendelian conditions.

 Genetic susceptibility to chronic diseases has been shown to influence heart failure (HF) risk. However, the underlying biological pathways, particularly the role of leukocyte telomere length (LTL), are largely unknown. We investigated the impact of genetic susceptibility to Chronic diseases and various traits on HF risk, and whether LTL mediates or modifies the pathways.

Whole blood viscosity (WBV) and an increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) has been reported. However, the causal relationship between WBV and CVD remains not thoroughly investigated. The aim of this study was to investigate the causal relation between WBVs and CVA.

Intrapancreatic fat deposition (IPFD) heightens the risk of diseases of the exocrine and endocrine pancreas. Of the 42,599 participants included in the analysis, the prevalence of FP was 17.86%. Elevated IPFD levels were associated with an increased risk of acute pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer.

Diffusion MRI is a neuroimaging modality used to evaluate brain structure at a microscopic level. We use normative modelling to create a semi-automated pipeline for detecting diffusion imaging artefacts and errors. Our method was compared to two traditional quality control approaches.

Human healthy and pathological aging is linked to a steady decline in brain resting-state activity and connectivity measures. The neurophysiological mechanisms that underlie these changes remain poorly understood. We found that the distributions of several major neurotransmitter systems including serotonergic, dopaminergic, noradrenergic, and glutamatergic correlated with age-related changes.

Few studies have examined dietary protein intake and sources, in combination with longitudinal changes in brain structure markers. Increasing the proportion of animal protein was associated with a slower reduction in the total hippocampus volume.

Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related neuropathological changes can occur decades before clinical symptoms. We aimed to investigate whether neurodevelopment and/or neurodegeneration affects the risk of AD, through reducing structural brain reserve or increasing brain atrophy.

Quercetin, a major flavonoid, can attenuate the disease activity of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) However, there is limited evidence that supports the benefits of quercet in patients with IBD. To investigate whether dietary quercETin intake is associated with adverse outcomes, we studied 2293 participants with I BD.

Previous studies have suggested a potential correlation between rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and biological aging, but the intricate connections and mechanisms remain elusive. In our study, we focused on two specific measures of biological age (PhenoAge and BioAge), which are derived from clinical biomarkers.

Deep learning was used to calculate the functional genomic activity score. This score, defined as the Haplotype Function Score (HFS), replaces the original genotype. Applying the HFS framework to 14 complex traits in the UK Biobank, we identified 3619 independent HFS-trait associations with a significance of p.

UK Biobank surveyed 174,771 adult participants who completed the Digestive Health Questionnaire (DHQ) through emails and websites. Mixed IBS was the predominant subtype, followed by diarrhea-predominant IBS (25.1%) Somatization and coeliac disease are primary risk factors for IBS.

Tuberculosis is a significant public health concern resulting in the death of over 1 million individuals each year worldwide. A substantial number of infections still remain untreated or are caused by treatment resistant strains. It is important to identify mechanisms that contribute to risk and prognosis of tuberculosis.

Study is a population-based and prospective cohort study on 36 939 UK Biobank participants. During a median follow-up of 11.6 years, a total of 5935 participants developed CMM. Usually/always night shift workers were associated with a 16% higher risk of CMM compared with day workers.

The association between adversity and cognition varies according to the specific adversity, when the adversity was experienced, and the cognitive domains investigated. Disentangling the effect of adversity and the underlying mechanistic pathway is difficult. Cumulative life course adversity was measured with items based on the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire (CTS-5) and items adapted from the British Crime Survey. Depression was assessed with the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) Intra-individual variability in reaction time was measured using a reaction time test "snap game"

Mental disorders are associated with reduced life expectancy and elevated levels of frailty. In this study, we examined the mortality risk associated with frailty in individuals with a lifetime history of mental disorders compared to individuals without mental disorders. Frailty and mental disorders represent potentially modifiable targets for prevention and treatment.

Population-based associations between rare variants and quantitative endophenotypes for three monogenic diseases. Effect sizes are associated with pathogenic ClinVar assertions.

This study describes the creation of the new individual fatty acid (FA) dataset for the Oxford WebQ. Participants who completed &#8805;1 (maximum of five) 24 h dietary assessments were included. Nutrient data from the UK McCance and Widdowson's The Composition of Foods were used to calculate intakes of 21 individual FAs.

For Alzheimer's disease-a leading cause of dementia and global morbidity-improved identification of presymptomatic high-risk individuals and identification of new circulating biomarkers are key public health needs. We tested the hypothesis that a polygenic predictor of risk would identify a subset of the population with increased risk of clinically diagnosed dementia.

UK Biobank enrolled 501,002 individuals aged between 40 and 70 years. During 4,438,839 person-years of follow-up, there were 2505 incident cases of all-cause dementia, including 932 cases of AD and 524 cases of VaD. Proton pump inhibitor use was associated with an increased risk of incident dementia, particularly among APOE &#949;4 heterozygotes.

Physical activity is regarded as favorable to health but effects across the spectrum of human disease are poorly quantified. In contrast to self-reported measures, wearable accelerometers can provide more precise and reproducible activity quantification. We test associations between moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) and incidence of 697 diseases.

The process of identifying suitable genome-wide association (GWA) studies can be laborious. We present a centralized polygenic risk score calculator currently containing over 250,000 genetic variant associations. Polygenic risk scores are calculated either online through the Polygenic Risk Score Knowledge Base (PRSKB) or via a command-line interface.

Polygenicity and genetic heterogeneity pose great challenges for studying psychiatric conditions. Genetically informed approaches have been implemented in neuroimaging studies to address this issue. However, the effects on functional connectivity of rare and common genetic risks for psychiatric disorders are largely unknown. Our objectives were to estimate and compare the effect sizes on brain connectivity of psychiatric genomic risk factors.

Age at natural menopause (ANM) is associated with a range of health-related traits, including bone health, female reproductive cancers, and cardiometabolic health. We conducted a hypothesis-free analysis of the genetic risk score (GRS) for ANM with 18,961 health- related traits among 181,279 women in UK Biobank. We sought to replicate our findings in independent cohorts.

The role of germline genetic factors in determining survival from cutaneous melanoma (CM) is not well understood. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) meta-analysis of melanoma-specific survival (MSS)

The aim of this study was to characterize telomere length, a biological hallmark of aging, in individuals with mental disorders. The UK Biobank is a multicenter community-based observational study that recruited >500,000 middle-aged and older adults. Individuals with depression had shorter telomeres than people withoutmental disorders.

Device-measured MPA and VPA were associated with lower risk of affective disorders. The potential mental health benefits of MPA continue to accrue above the current World Health Organization recommendation. Replacing 30 min of sedentary behaviour in a week with MPA (HR 0.95, 95% CI 0.94-0.97) or VPA ( HR 0.91, 95’sCI 0.85- 0.98) was associated with a lower risk.

Chronic back pain (CBP) is heterogenous and identifying sub-groups could improve clinical decision making. Machine learning can build upon prior sub-grouping approaches by using a data-driven approach to overcome clinician subjectivity. We showed that two variables (loneliness/social isolation and depression) and five clusters were optimal for creating sub- groups of CBP individuals.

Two-stage GWAS (discovery and confirmation) was performed for diaphragmatic hernia in the UKB. 275,549 and 91,850 subjects were randomly selected for association tests in Stages 1 and 2, respectively. Association tests between 8,568,156 SNPs (genotyped or imputed with MAF > 0.01) and hernia were performed in Stage 1.

Deep learning methods have recently gained success in detecting left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVSD) from electrocardiogram (ECG) waveforms. Despite their high level of accuracy, they are difficult to interpret and deploy broadly in the clinical setting. In this study, we set out to determine whether simpler models based on standard ECG measurements could detect LVSD with similar accuracy.

Clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) is an age-related condition predisposing to hematologic cancers and cardiovascular disease. Gout is a common inflammatory arthritis caused by precipitation of monosodium urate (MSU) crystals in individuals with hyperuricemia. CHIP is associated with elevated IL-1&#946;, thus we investigated CHIP as a risk factor for gout.

No prior studies have linked air pollution exposure to incident sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) We aimed to investigate the association between long-term exposure to air pollution and SCA. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) were selected as intermediate conditions. During a median follow-up of 13.7 years, 2884 participants developed SCA among 458 237 individuals.

Using the UK Biobank cohort, a multivariable Cox regression analysis was conducted on 406,424 individuals. Reduced FEV 1  and FVC %pred values were associated with an elevated risk across all studied outcomes. The fact that the increased risk was evident also atFEV 1 and F VC levels exceeding 80 %pred challenges the contemporary classification of lung function categories.

High level of apolipoprotein A was significantly correlated with lower lung cancer risk. An inverse-J-shaped relationship between high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and incident lung cancer was found. Individuals with low total cholesterol, HDL, low- density lipop protein (LDL) combined with high PRS showed elevated lung cancer risks.

Higher heel eBMD was associated with lower odds of all prevalent CVDs considered. The greatest magnitude of effect was seen in association with HF and NICM. Findings support the notion that bone-cardiovascular associations reflect shared risk factors/mechanisms rather than direct causal pathways.

Genetic research into atrial fibrillation (AF) and myocardial infarction (MI) has predominantly focused on comparing afflicted individuals with their healthy counterparts. This approach lacks granularity, thus overlooking subtleties within patient populations. In this study, we explore the distinction between AF and MI patients who experience only a single disease event and those experiencing recurrent events.

Cystatin C (CysC) has been implicated in various physical and pathological activities. However, the impact of serum CysC on cancer mortality in a general population remains unknown. We aimed to examine the associations of Cys C concentrations with total mortality and mortality of 12 site-specific cancers.

Interplay between lifestyle risk scores and genetic risk scores on obesity and related chronic diseases are underinvestigated and necessary for understanding obesity causes and developing prevention strategies. Study aimed to investigate independent and joint associations and interactions of LRS and GRS with obesity prevalence and risks of diabetes, cardiovascular disease (CVD), and obesity-related cancer.

The "missing" heritability of complex traits may be partly explained by genetic variants interacting with other genes or environments that are difficult to specify, observe, and detect. We propose a new kernel-based method called Latent Interaction Testing (LIT) to screen for genetic interactions.

In patients with heart failure, concomitant sinus node dysfunction (SND) is an important predictor of mortality, yet its molecular underpinnings are poorly understood. Using proteomics, this study aimed to dissect the protein and phosphorylation remodelling within the sinus nodes in an animal model of HF with concurrent SND.

The association of dairy product consumption with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and cirrhosis remains controversial. This study aimed to prospectively investigate the associations between the consumption of the different types of dairy products, genetic predisposition, and the risks of NAFLD. The study included 190 145 participants from the UK Biobank Study. During a median follow-up of 11.6 years, 1512 NAFLd and 556 Cirrhosis cases were ascertained.

CRISPR base editing screens enable analysis of disease-associated variants at scale. variable efficiency and precision confounds the assessment of variant-induced phenotypes. Here, we provide an integrated experimental and computational pipeline that improves estimation of variant effects.

The presence of sex-differences in SNP effect implies a SNP×sex interaction. This suggests the usage of the often overlooked joint test. The joint test statistic can be derived from sex-stratified summary statistics.

The lack of sex-specific cardiovascular disease criteria contributes to the underdiagnosis of women compared to that of men. For a first-degree atrioventricular block and dilated cardiomyopathy, two conditions with non-sex-specific diagnostic criteria, women are under-diagnosed 2× and 1.4× more than men.

There is a two-fold higher incidence of depression in females compared to men. Recent studies suggest a role for microglia in conferring this sex-dependent depression risk. In this study we investigated the nature of this relation. The adult microglial PGS moderated the association between BMI and financial insecurity.

This article is linked to Schneider et al papers. To view these articles, visit https://doi.org/10.1111/apt.17958 and http://www.cnn.com/2013/01/23/science/science-technology-science-journal/index.html#storylink.

Study used data from the UK Biobank cohort study, which recruited 500,000 adults. Subjects with multisensory impairments concurrent with visual impairment demonstrated a negative association with cognitive function. Those with both vision and hearing impairments had a significantly higher risk of developing dementia.

There is a close association between diet and abdominal pain, but relationship between inflammatory diet and characteristics of abdominal pain has not been characterized yet. This study analyzed baseline data from the UK Biobank, 3-item DHQ-Abdominal Pain Questionnaire (DHQ-3Q), which including abdominal pain in the past 3 months.

The role of serum urate (SU) levels in the development of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) remains a topic of debate. The objective of this study is to examine whether and to what extent a healthy diet can reduce the risk of COPD in relation to SU levels. The cohort analysis included 155 403 participants from the UK Biobank.

Elderly-onset seborrheic dermatitis (SD) seriously affects the quality of life. associations between air pollution exposures and SD incidence have not been elucidated. Higher concentrations of specific pollutants, particularly in the upper quartile, were significantly linked to an elevated SD risk.

Study looked at the effect of ultra-processed food (UPF) consumption, genetic susceptibility, and their interactions on hip/knee OA. After 1,461,447 person-years of follow-up, 11,540 patients developed Oa.

Common risk variants for schizophrenia within complement genes associate with structural changes in white matter microstructure within tracts innervating the frontal lobe. Risk alleles within the Major Histocompatibility Complex region in chromosome 6 appeared to drive these associations.

Point Cloud Deformation Network (PCD-Net) is a novel geometric deep learning approach for direct modeling of 3D cardiac mechanics. It combines a low-dimensional latent space with recent advances in point cloud deep learning for effective multi-scale feature learning directly on flexible and memory-efficient point cloud representations of the cardiac anatomy.

Study looked at 501,548 participants of the UK Biobank cohort study aged 40-69 years. Prevalence of pre-frailty and polypharmacy were 43.2% and 2.3% respectively. No profound associations with cancer incidence and cancer mortality were observed.

Lung cancer has a high incidence and poor prognosis. This study tends to develop a generalizable lung-cancer prediction model. We used machine learning to define high-risk groups and realize early identification and prevention of lung cancer.

Study aims to evaluate the association between UPF intake and the risk of CVD among individuals with type 2 diabetes (T2D) Cystatin C, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), apolipoprotein A, C-reactive protein, and body mass index collectively explain 26.9% (12.8%, 48.5%) of the association.

Long-term exposure to ozone (O 3 ) and adult-onset asthma (AOA) remains inconclusive, and analysis of causality is lacking. To examine the causal association between long-term O 3 exposure and AOA, a prospective cohort study of 362,098 participants was conducted.

It remains unknown whether adiposity subtypes are differentially associated with colorectal cancer (CRC) A generally obese (PC1) and a tall, centrally obese ( PC3) body shape were both positively associated with CRC risk in observational analyses in 329,828 UK Biobank participants. Brain tissue-specific genetic instruments, mapped to PC1 through enrichment analysis, were responsible for the relationship between PC1 and CRC. Relationship between PC3 and CRC was predominantly driven by adipose tissue- specific genetic instruments.

We propose a new framework for human genetic association studies. At each locus, a deep learning model is used to calculate the functional genomic activity score. This score, defined as the Haplotype Function Score (HFS), replaces the original genotype. Applying the HFS framework to 14 complex traits in the UK Biobank, we identified 3619 independent HFS-trait associations with a significance of p  -8.

Study was designed to investigate whether the coronary artery disease polygenic risk score (CAD-PRS) may guide lipid-lowering treatment initiation as well as deferral in primary prevention. Participants were 311 799 individuals from the UK Biobank free of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic kidney disease.

There was substantial variability in the prevalence of depression among patients with chronic pain. Clinically relevant factors were selected to develop prediction models. These predictors are convenient to collect during daily practice, making them easy for busy clinicians to use.

Patients with stroke showed poorer cardiovascular prevention profiles and lower adherence to guideline-directed therapies. These findings underscore the need to explore the reasons behind the underuse of secondary prevention in vulnerable stroke survivors.

1 in 4 people worldwide have non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) There are currently no medications to treat this condition. This study investigated the role of G protein-coupled receptor 75 (GPR75) in liver lipid accumulation.

Large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are emerging, based on heterogeneous disease definitions. We investigated the genetic architecture of IBS defined according to gold standard Rome Criteria. Rome III IBS showed significant SNP-heritability and similar genetic architecture across subtypes.

The amygdala nuclei modulate distributed neural circuits that most likely evolved to respond to environmental threats and opportunities. In the context of population change, the basal, lateral, accessory basal, and paralaminar nuclei change in lockstep with the prefrontal cortex. The central nucleus and anterior amygdaloid area are longitudinally tied with the inferior parietal lobule.

Metabolomic age models have been proposed for the study of biological aging, but they have not been widely validated. We aimed to assess the performance of newly developed and existing nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR) metabolomic Age models. Ninety-eight metabolic variables were measured in blood from nine UK and Finnish cohort studies.

Study looked at the role of longitudinal change in sleep patterns in the incidence of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) Compared with participants with stable poor patterns, those who improved their sleep patterns or maintained healthy sleep patterns had a 26% and 32% lower risk of CVD.

The UK Biobank has become an invaluable resource for identifying genetic variants that are associated with complex diseases. A common practice of these compendiums is to collect interval-censored data. One challenge in analyzing such data is the lack of methodology available for genetic association studies.

People with viral encephalitis had a later-life risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) that was 31 times higher. A genome wide association study (GWAS) with UK Biobank data revealed that the gene RAR Related Orphan Receptor B (RORB) is significantly associated with viralEncephalitis. RPTOR, a gene associated with the mTOR pathway, emerges as significant. Carriers of the minor allele A exhibiting decreased prevalence in subjects under age 55.

Rare damaging variants in a large number of genes are known to cause monogenic developmental disorders (DDs) They have also been shown to cause milder subclinical phenotypes in population cohorts. We show that carrying multiple (2-5) rare damaging variants across 599 dominant DD genes has an additive adverse effect on numerous cognitive and socioeconomic traits in UK Biobank.

The complications of liver cirrhosis occur after long asymptomatic stages of progressive fibrosis and are generally diagnosed late. We aimed to develop a plasma metabolomic-based score tool to predict these events. We enrolled 64,005 UK biobank participants with metabolomic profiles.

UK Biobank is a large-scale epidemiological resource for investigating correlations between various lifestyle, environmental, and genetic factors with health and disease progression. In this study, we augment the existing set of UK Biobanks neuroimaging structural IDPs with related measurements acquired through the Advanced Normalization Tools Ecosystem. Through predictive modeling, we assess the clinical utility of these IDP measurements, individually and in combination.

 Pharmacogenetic variants are associated with clinical outcomes during Calcium Channel Blocker (CCB) treatment. Whether effects are modified by genetically predicted clinical risk factors is unknown. We analyzed 32,000 UK Biobank participants treated with dihydropiridine CCBs.

Dietary salt intake has been linked with gastric cancer risk in Asian studies. Findings from Western populations are sparse and limited to case - control studies. Our aim was to evaluate the frequency of adding salt to food at table in relation to gastriccancer risk among UK adults.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) can cause a muscle loss phenotype (MLP) MLP is characterized by the loss of muscle mass, muscle strength, or loss of both muscle and fat mass. There are limited data comparing the individual traits of MLP with clinical outcomes in a large unbiased cohort of COPD patients.

Tobacco use disorder (TUD) is the most prevalent substance use disorder in the world. We leveraged four US biobanks to perform a multi-ancestral meta-analysis of TUD. We identified 88 independent risk loci and 461 potential risk genes.

Previous studies have demonstrated that incorporating a polygenic risk score (PRS) to existing risk prediction models for breast cancer improves model fit. To determine its clinical utility the impact on risk categorization needs to be established.

Early-onset prostate cancer (EOPC) has a unique clinical entity harboring high genetic risk. The majority of EOPC patients still substantial opportunity to be early-detected. A refined understanding of age-based polygenic risk score (PRS) for PCa would be essential for personalized risk stratification.

Age-related cataract and hearing difficulties are major sensory disorders that often co-exist in the global-wide elderly. Little is known about whether the two share their genetic etiology. We first investigated the clinical association between cataracts and hearing difficulty using the UK Biobank covering 502,543 individuals. Follow-up analysis implicates candidate genes QKI, STK17A, TYR, NSF, and TCF4.

Approximately 95% of samples analyzed in univariate genome-wide association studies are of European ancestry. Existing data in non-European populations could benefit from innovative approaches as recently illustrated in the context of polygenic risk scores.

Common genetic variants in SLCO1B1 cause altered systemic exposure to statins and therefore affect statin outcomes. We studied common and rare variants in up to 64,000 patients from UK Biobank prescribed simvastatin or atorvastATin. Both  S LCO1b1 *5 alone and the  SLCo1B 1 *15 haplotype increased LDL during treatment. We conclude that genotype-guided treatment could reduce GP-diagnosed muscle symptoms in statin patients.

Study looked at 407,792 participants from the UK Biobank who were free of dementia, stroke, or Parkinson's disease at enrollment. Compared with TV viewing >0-1 h/day, watching TV &#8805;5 h/ day was associated with higher risks of dementia.

The impact of smoking on healthcare costs is important for evaluating policies intended to modify this behavior. Conventional analysis of this association is difficult because of omitted variable bias, reverse causality, and measurement error. We undertook genome wide association studies to identify genetic variants associated with smoking initiation and a composite smoking index.

Overfeeding PUFA compared with SFA induced greater lean tissue accumulation despite similar weight gain. Similar nonsignificant results for SFA and PUFA were observed in UK Biobank, but circulating fatty acids demonstrated ambiguous and sex-dependent associations.

Traditional approaches use regression to sequentially test multiplicative interaction terms involving pairs of genetic variants. For higher-order interactions and genome-wide large-scale data, this strategy is computationally intractable. Building on the Predictability, Computability, Stability (PCS) framework, we introduce the epiTree pipeline.

The association between alcohol consumption and risk of peripheral artery disease (PAD) is inconclusive. We conducted this study to examine the association in two de novo cohort studies and a meta-analysis of observational studies. Compared with non- or never-drinkers, the relative risk of PAD was 0.83 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.77-0.89)

Study investigates associations between air pollution and colorectal cancer (CRC) risk and survival from an epigenomic perspective. Methylation may partly mediate pathogenic effects of air pollution on CRC, with annotation to protein-coding genes TMBIM1/PNKD, CXCR5 and TMEM110.

Study was based on participants from the UK Biobank. 4502 cases of kidney stone were recorded during the follow-up of 423,301 participants. Participants with high (Q5) and moderate (Q2 to Q4) genetic risks had increased risks.

The morphologic properties of brain regions co-vary or correlate with each other. Here we investigated the structural covariances of cortical thickness and subcortical volumes in the ageing brain, along with their associations with age and cognition. We examined cross-sectional data from the UK Biobank (N = 42,075)

The effect of dyslipidemia on kidney disease outcomes has been inconclusive. We aimed to investigate the effects of genetic factors on the risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD) using polygenic risk score (PRS) In total, 4,424 participants developed CKD.

Predicting and early detection of heart failure (HF) is crucial to mitigate its impact on quality of life, survival, and healthcare expenditure. Here, we explored the predictive value of serum metabolomics (168 metabolites detected by proton nuclear magnetic resonance [ 1 H-NMR] spectroscopy) for incident HF.

Machine learning (ML) methods are increasingly becoming crucial in genome-wide association studies. Unlike traditional methods, ML algorithms can identify groups of low-risk genetic variants.

Study investigated natural selection signals of genes associated with critically-ill COVID-19 in sub-Saharan Africans. Selection signals were assessed in 661 sub-Sahara Africans from 1000 Genomes Project. Allele frequency trajectory analysis of ancient DNA samples were used to validate the existing of selection. Natural selection resulted in increased CCR3 expression and eosinophil counts.

Dysbetalipoproteinemia (DBL) is a multifactorial disorder that disrupts the normal metabolism of remnant lipoproteins. However, establishing a proper diagnosis is difficult and the true prevalence of the disease in the general population remains unknown.

Integrated analyses of plasma proteomics and genetic data in prospective studies can help assess the causal relevance of proteins, improve risk prediction, and discover novel protein drug targets for type 2 diabetes (T2D) We measured plasma levels of 2,923 proteins using Olink Explore among &#8764;2,000 randomly selected participants from China Kadoorie Biobank.

Lung health is increasingly recognized as an essential factor in mental health. However, prospective evidence on lung function with incident depression remains to be determined. Study aimed to examine the prospective association between impaired lung function and incident depression and the underlying biological mechanisms.

Genetic susceptibility to POAG primarily influences ocular conditions, with limited systemic associations. Individuals carrying a high genetic burden exhibited a 9.20-fold increase in glaucoma incidence when associated with low corneal hysteresis, high myopia, and elevated intraocular pressure.

Women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) have increased odds of concurrent depression. Here, we aimed to use bioinformatic analysis to screen for the genetic elements shared between PCOS and depression. Three key genes, namely, SNAP23 , VTI1A , and PRKAR1A, were identified in the comorbidity.

The impact of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) on incident dementia is unknown. A history of GDM was associated with a greater risk of incident dementia. Type 2 diabetes partially mediated this relationship.

Hypertension and diabetes mellitus (DM) are major causes of morbidity and mortality. Advances in machine learning may provide opportunities to enhance diagnostics in settings with limited medical infrastructure.

Most existing PRS are primarily trained on European ancestry populations, limiting their transferability to non-European populations. We propose a novel method for generating multi-ancestry Polygenic Risk scOres based on enSemble of PEnalized Regression models.

Study included a total of 223,951 participants from the UK Biobank. Smoking, physical activity, alcohol consumption, healthy diet patterns, sedentary time, and sleep duration items were used. Risk of asthma was highest among participants with the lowest SES and the least healthy lifestyles.

Ageing is a heterogeneous multisystem process involving different rates of decline in physiological integrity across biological systems. The current study dissects the unique and common variance across body and brain health indicators. It parses inter-individual heterogeneity in the mult isystem ageing process.

A total of 294 815 participants without diabetes from the UK Biobank were included. Compared with non-smokers, a shorter time from waking to first cigarette was significantly associated with a higher risk of incident T2D.

The importance of age on the development of ocular conditions has been reported. It is unclear which types of diabetes are more predictive. Diabetes may have different associations with different stages. duration of diabetes may affect development of diabetic eye disease.

Schizophrenia (SCZ) and autism spectrum disorder (ASD) may represent opposite ends of neurodevelopmental disorders. Given the strong genetic predisposition of both disorders, we propose a shared genetic component. A common genetic variant may exert differential risk regulation on SCZ and ASD by altering brain structure.

 Observational studies have identified that declined kidney function was associated with a higher risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) Here, we compared the observational associations of various kidney function measurements with CVD and its major subtypes. We also assessed the potential causality using Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses.

The relationship between the consumption of different beverages and the risk of microvascular complications in individuals with type 2 diabetes (T2D) is unclear. This cohort study included 6676 participants with T2D who were free of macrovascular and microv vascular complications at baseline in the UK Biobank.

The Life's Essential 8 (LE8) score represents a new paradigm for evaluating cardiovascular health (CVH) We aimed to explore the association between CVH and venous thromboembolism (VTE) incidence.

Post-surgery blood-based biomarkers may be useful for guiding treatment and surveillance decisions among colorectal cancer (CRC) patients. Most candidate biomarkers provide little if any predictive value beyond stage at diagnosis. We aimed to investigate the independent prognostic value of post-operative serum C-reactive protein (CRP), a highly sensitive biomarker of inflammation.

Study aims to leverage advances in self-supervised learning to exploit the large-scale UK Biobank accelerometer dataset. Our resulting models consistently outperform strong baselines across eight benchmark datasets.

 Mutations in the gene MTARC1 (mitochondrial amidoxime-reducing component 1) protect carriers from metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) and cirrhosis. We identified a novel human structural variant deletion inMTARC1, which is associated with various biomarkers of liver health. Hepatocyte mARC1 knockdown reduced body weight, liver steatosis, oxidative stress, cell death, and fibrogenesis markers.

Long-term exposure to PM2.5, PM10, NO2 and NOx, even at low levels, was associated with an increased risk of diabetic microvascular complications. The associations of certain air pollutants with composite microv vascular complications and diabetic nephropathy were present even at concentrations below the WHO limit.

Prediabetes is a heterogenous metabolic state with various risks for development of type 2 diabetes (T2D) We used genetic data on 7,227 US Hispanic/Latino participants without diabetes. Six clusters of individuals with prediabetes with distinctive patterns of pPRSs and corresponding metabolic traits were identified.

Pulse pressure, haemoglobin A1c and cystatin-C tracked ageing consistently. Results also revealed a fundamental dynamic sex divergence that we speculate is caused by menopause-driven metabolic deterioration in women.

Hyperinsulinism (HI) is a rare genetically heterogeneous condition characterised by dysregulated insulin secretion leading to life-threatening hypoglycaemia. For up to 50% of affected individuals screening of the known HI genes does not identify a disease-causing variant. Large deletions have previously been used to identify novel regulatory regions causing HI.

Previous studies have suggested that exposure to air pollutants may be associated with specific blood indicators or anemia in certain populations. There is insufficient epidemiological data and prospective evidence to evaluate the relationship between environmental air pollution and specific types of anemia. We conducted a large-scale prospective cohort study based on the UK Biobank. NO2, PM2.5, and PM10 were significantly associated with an increased risk of iron deficiency, vitamin B12 deficiency and folate deficiency anemia, while there was no significant association with other defined types.

Vitamin D deficiency was widespread, particularly among non-White individuals. UVB was a strong predictor of 25(OH)D and the effect was modified by other factors. Findings suggest that accurately measured ambient-UVB radiation and interactions could improve vitamin D prediction models.

Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLc) and body mass index (BMI) are not always correlated. Relationship is probably dependent on age, indicating differential age-specific associations of these factors with health outcomes. We aim to discriminate the roles of LDLc and BMI in coronary heart disease (CHD) across different age groups.

Study aims to investigate the link between glaucoma, a leading cause of blindness, and alterations in brain connections. We analyzed diffusion MRI measurements of white matter tissue in a large group of patients and healthy people. Results showed CNNs using information from the optic radiations exhibited higher accuracy.

Human fetal development has been associated with brain health at later stages. It is unknown whether growth in utero relates consistently to lifespan brain characteristics and changes. Here we show remarkably stable and lifelong positive associations between BW and cortical surface area and volume across and within developmental, aging and lifespan longitudinal samples.

A total of 138 064 participants from the UK Biobank were included in this prospective study. The free and non-free sugar intakes were assessed using repeated web-based 24-hour dietary recalls. During a median follow-up of 10.5 years, 2,923 participants (2.1%) developed CKD. Free sugar intake was positively associated with the risk of CKD (HR quartile 4 vs. quartile 1  = 1.32, 95% CI = 1,18, 1.47), with a nonlinear relationship ( P  for nonlinearity = 0.01, the risk increased rapidly after free sugars made up 10% of the total energy)

The risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD) significantly increases in individuals carrying the APOE&#949;4 allele. We found that potentially protective variants segregating exclusively among unaffected APOE &#949%;4 carriers. Study suggests that vascular deposition of FN1 is related to the pathogenicity of AD.

Aerobic MVPA bouts undertaken in the evening were associated with the lowest risk of mortality, CVD, and MVD. Timing of physical activity may play a role in the future of obesity and T2D management.

Study included 176,686 postmenopausal women from UK Biobank. Strong evidence of positive associations between PC1 (general obesity) and PC2 (tall, low WHR), and BC risk. Association of PC1 with BC risk was positively mediated by testosterone and negatively by insulin-like growth factor-1.

Polygenic risk scores offer promising advancements in predicting disease risk. Research aimed at enhancing their effectiveness within African and Asian populations remains key for equitable use. Prostate cancer is a heritable disease with ancestry-biased incidence and mortality.

Comorbidities are prevalent in digestive cancers, intensifying patient discomfort and complicating prognosis. We investigated 150 diseases across 18 categories by collecting and integrating various factors related to disease comorbidity. We have established an integrated pleiotropic gene set comprising 548 genes in total.

Evidence regarding the relationships of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] with cardiovascular diseases (CVD) and mortality among patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) is limited and inconsistent. This study aimed to investigate the associations between serum 25( OH)D and CVD incidence and mortality. The study included 21,507 participants with CKD and free of CVD.

Current and lifetime night shift work may increase the risk of incident asthma, regardless of genetic predisposition to asthma. We included 253,773 individuals with complete night shift information in the UK biobank. We calculated the standard polygenetic risk score (PRS) for asthma.

We examined the association between blood levels of Branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) and the susceptibility to three neurodegenerative disorders. Blood concentrations of isoleucine, leucine and valine were significantly associated with a reduced risk of dementia and AD. This association remained robust even in sensitivity analyses.

Healthy sleep score showed a linear relationship with acute myocardial infarction mortality among people with diabetes. Of five sleep habits, adequate sleep duration was associated with lowest risk.

Clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) may contribute to the risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) through its association with inflammation and cardiac remodeling. This was a population-based, prospective cohort study in participants of the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study and UK Biobank (UKB) cohort.

Evidence shows that magnesium (Mg) intake is associated with lower blood pressure (BP), and that lower BP is linked to improved cerebral health. However, recent findings indicate that the positive effect of dietary Mg intake on cerebral health is not mediated by a decrease in BP. As Mg's anti-inflammatory action is a plausible alternative mechanism, the objective of this study was to investigate the associations between Mg and inflammation.

The presence of multiple cardiometabolic diseases (CMDs) has been linked to increased dementia risk. The combined influence of CMDs on cognition and brain structure across the life course is unclear. In the UK Biobank, 46,562 dementia-free participants completed a cognitive test battery at baseline and a follow-up visit 9 years later.

We aimed to create an imaging biomarker for knee shape using knee dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scans and investigate its potential association with subsequent total knee replacement (TKR) Using a 129-point statistical shape model, knee shape (expressed as a B-score) and minimum joint space width (mJSW) of the medial joint compartment were derived.

Dietary cholesterol (DC) absorption was assessed by repeated 24-h dietary recalls in the UK Biobank. Each additional 300 mg/day of DC consumption was associated with incident diabetes and CVD. Genetic susceptibility to the diseases did not modify these associations.

Childhood maltreatment (CM) leads to a lifelong susceptibility to mental ill-health. We tested three hypotheses: (H1) CM has direct or indirect effects on adult trauma, BMI, and CRP; (H2) adult trauma,. BMI, & CRP are all independently related to adult brain structure; and (H3) childhood maltreatment has indirect effects. We found that CM is related to greater BMI and AT levels.

MVtest can simultaneously model the mean and log-variance of a quantitative trait. We identified 51 and 37 previously unreported associations for effects on blood-pressure variance and mean, respectively, in the UK Biobank. Transcriptome-wide association studies revealed 633 significant unique gene associations.

White matter hyperintensities (WMHs) represent diffuse small vessel disease implicating the cardiac, systemic, and cerebral vasculatures. The brain may be the end-organ of cumulative vascular disease, and higher education is protective of both cardiovascular and brain health.

A total of 448,836 individuals free of gout at baseline were included from the UK Biobank. One-unit higher log-transformed total testosterone (TT) was associated with a 52 % [95 % CI, 0.39-0.58] lower risk of gouts in males. Free testosterone (FT) and BAT were associated with 74% and 78% higher risk in males respectively.

The tBCAAs/glycine ratio was prospectively associated with a higher risk of developing hypertension and CHD. Outcomes of genome-wide association study were derived from the UK Biobank (nonoverlapping sample), FinnGen, and CARDIoGRAMplusC4D.

The development of an effective survival prediction tool is key for reducing colorectal cancer mortality. Here, we apply a three-stage study to devise a polygenic prognostic score (PPS) for stratifying overall survival. The detrimental impact of pathologic characteristics and genetic risk could be attenuated by a healthy lifestyle.

Anatomical vs. functional testing in suspected coronary artery disease (CAD) is associated with better outcomes than random selection. In the real world, this decision is rarely random. We explored the agreement between a provider-driven vs. simulated algorithmic approach to cardiac testing and its association with outcomes across multinational cohorts.

Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have excessive morbidity and mortality of cardiovascular disease (CVD) The mechanism underlying this association has not been fully known. This study aims to systematically investigate the phenotypic and genetic correlation between RA and CVD. We observed positive genetic correlations of RA with AF and stroke.

 Parkinson disease (PD) has become one of the most rapidly growing causes of disability among the older population. Social isolation is a major concern in the PD community. The relationship between social isolation and future risk of PD remains unclear. This study included 192,340 participants aged 60 or older who were free of dementia and PD at baseline from the UK Biobank study.

Identifying patients with established cardiovascular disease (CVD) who are at high risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D) may allow for early interventions. The aim of this study was to develop and externally validate the CVD2DM model to estimate the 10-year and lifetime risks of T2D.

The aim was to stratify participants of the UK Biobank cohort based on three readily measurable common independent risk factors. Two-step cluster analysis was run separately in males and females. In females, in case of a protective pattern of low neuroticism, low body fat percentage, and high level of education, depression was associated with pathways related to olfactory function.

While numerous genomic loci have been identified for neuropsychiatric conditions, the contribution of protein-coding variants has yet to be determined. Here we conducted a large-scale whole-exome-sequencing study to interrogate the impact of proteins on 46 diseases and 23 traits in 350,770 adults from the UK Biobank. Twenty new genes were associated with diseases through coding variants.

Mental disorders that follow traumatic experience may increase risk of suicidality. We attempted to provide comprehensive evidence on how depressive symptoms and neuroticism can mediate the association between psychological traumatic experiences and suicidal behaviours.

Spontaneous miscarriage is associated with higher risks of depression and anxiety. Risk of depression is further increased when there is also low degree of social support.

Digital AS Severity index (DASSi) can detect severe AS using single-view long-axis echocardiography without Doppler characterization. Higher baseline DASSi was associated with faster progression in AV-Vmax.

Study looked at the links between birth weight and incident adult type 2 diabetes (T2D) that were mediated by plasma metabolites. Low birth weight was associated with the adverse metabolic responses across multiple metabolic pathways. Metabolites associated with higher birth weight tended to be associated with a lower risk of T2D.

Aging is a multifaceted and intricate physiological process. Biological age may provide a more nuanced understanding of the aging process. The concept of biological age lacks a clear operationalization, leading to the development of various biological age predictors without a solid statistical foundation.

Childhood adversity and adulthood adversity affect cognition later in life. The mechanism through which adversity exerts these effects on cognition remains under-researched. We aimed to investigate if the effect of adversity on cognition was mediated by distress or neuroticism.

Carotid intima-media thickness (cIMT) is widely considered a risk factor for stroke. The intrinsic link underlying cIMT and stroke has not been fully understood. We evaluated phenotypic associations using observational data from UK Biobank. We then investigated genetic relationships leveraging genomic data conducted in predominantly European ancestry.

A total of 7,194 participants were derived from UK Biobank. CVH was evaluated using a modified version of LE8. The moderate to low group was associated with about 128 % increased risk of CVD.

Until recently, brain measures for genome-wide association studies (GWAS) consisted of traditionally expert-defined or software-derived image-derived phenotypes. Here, we present an approach to derive brain imaging phenotypes using unsupervised deep representation learning. We train a 3-D convolutional autoencoder model with reconstruction loss on 6130 UK Biobank participants' brain MRIs.

Omega-3 and omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been associated with various chronic diseases and mortality, but results are conflicting. Few studies examined the role of omega-4/omega-3 ratio in mortality. Using a population-based cohort in UK Biobank, our study revealed a strong association between the ratio of circulating PUFAs and the risk of all-cause, cancer, and CVD mortality.

Smoking is a significant risk factor for cognitive decline. Developing effective smoking reduction strategies is therefore a public health priority. The goal of the current study is to better understand the brain mechanisms underlying long-term smoking behavior change in cognitively normal, but at-risk, older adults.

The TR-gnomAD is a biobank-scale reference of 0.86 million tandem repeat (TR) expansions. TRs constitute &#8764;6% of our genome and are linked to over 50 human diseases. It offers critical insights into ancestry-specific disease prevalence using disparities in TR unit number frequencies.

In biomedical ML, it is often desirable to leverage multiple datasets to increase sample size and diversity. We present an approach to the integration of multiple brain MRI datasets with a focus on homogenization of their organization and preprocessing for ML. We believe our approach can provide a basis for future similarly-minded biomedical ML projects.

Potentially interacting supplement-drug pairs were identified from four tertiary databases. The potential pharmacodynamic interactions were related to various clinical outcomes, including reducing the effects of glucose-lowering drugs. Exploratory analyses found that the use of potentially interacting supplements was associated with incident hepatic diseases. Clinicians should communicate with patients and assess the potential risk of supplement- drug interactions in clinical settings.

There remains a dearth of understanding regarding the mechanisms underpinning this correlation. We aimed to examine the associations of childhood physical abuse and physical neglect with depression using follow-up data from UK Biobank. We quantified the contribution of smoking, insomnia and BMI in these associations.

UK Biobank participants completed baseline surveys during 2006-2010 and were followed for up to 15 years. Overall and site-specific cancers were ascertained via linkage to routine hospital admission, cancer registry, and death certificate data. Low IDI scores were associated with decreased risk of rectal cancer, thyroid cancer, and lung cancer.

Circulating omega-3 and omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been associated with various chronic diseases and mortality, but results are conflicting. Scientists have struggled to accurately measure fatty acid intake. But, measuring circulating fatty acids in an individual's blood may offer an easier and more reliable approach to studying the health impacts of these vital nutrients.

Vitamin D status has been associated with risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D), but evidence is scarce regarding whether such relation differs by glycemic status. Study included 379,699 participants without T2D at baseline from the UK Biobank.

Exome-sequence analyses for adult body mass index (BMI) in up to 587,027 individuals. We identified rare loss-of-function variants in two genes (BSN and APBA1) with effects substantially larger than those of well-established obesity genes. BSN protein-truncating variants (PTVs) magnified the influence of common genetic variants associated with BMI.

Steatotic liver disease (SLD) is characterized by elevated liver fat content (LFC) Whether diet has a differential effect based on genetic risk is not well-characterized. We aimed to determine how genetic factors interact with diet to affect SLD in a large national biobank.

 Individuals with clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) are at increased risk of aging related health conditions and all-cause mortality, but whether CHIP affects risk of infection is much less clear. We show that inflammation enhanced pneumonia risk, as CHIP carriers with a hypomorphic IL6 receptor polymorphism were protected.

The peripheral white blood cell (WBC) and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) reflect levels of inflammation and adaptive immunity. They are associated with cancer prognosis, but their associations with cancer incidence are not established. We evaluated 443,540 cancer-free adults in the UK Biobank.

Depression is reported as a risk factor, prodromal feature and late consequence of Parkinson's disease (PD) We aimed to evaluate the timing, neuroanatomy and prognostic implications of depression in PD.

Cardiometabolic disease risk factors disproportionately prevalent in bipolar disorder (BD) It is unknown which health risk factors are relevant to cognition in BD. This study aimed to identify the cardiometabolism risk factors that are the most important.

The importance of left ventricular global radial strain in predicting new-onset heart failure in a population with diabetes is unclear. The study design is prospective cohort from the UK Biobank. The average age of the 940 participants was 57.67 +/- 6.97 years.

Recent research shows prominent effects of pregnancy and the parenthood transition on structural brain characteristics in humans. Here, we present a comprehensive study of how parental status and number of children born/fathered links to markers of brain and cellular ageing in 36,323 UK Biobank participants.

Our knowledge of the organisation of the human brain at the population-level is yet to translate into power to predict functional differences at the individual-level. It remains unknown whether the difficulty arises from the absence of individuating biological patterns within the brain, or from limited power to access them. Here we comprehensively investigate the resolvability of such patterns with data and compute at unprecedented scale.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease and the leading cause of dementia. Early diagnosis is critical for patients to benefit from potential intervention and treatment. The retina has emerged as a plausible diagnostic site for AD detection.

Risk of developing allergic diseases, beyond the first 30 days of diagnosis of COVID-19, significantly increased. Among the 836,164 individuals in the main cohort, 147,824 were infected with SARS-CoV-2 during the follow-up period (2020-2021)

Little is known about the independent and joint effects of the energy-adjusted dietary inflammatory index (E-DII) and dietary diversity score (DDS) on sarcopenia and its components (low muscle mass, low muscle strength, and low physical performance) A total of 155,669 UK Biobank participants with &#8805;1 (maximum 5) 24 h dietary assessments were included in this cross-sectional analysis.

Left-handedness occurs at increased rates in neurodevelopmental disorders. The beta-tubulin gene TUBB4B shows exome-wide significant association. The rate of rare coding variants 2.7 times higher in left-handers than right- handers.

Myopic eyes of 10,488 adults aged 40-69 years were identified in the UK Biobank. Corneal hysteresis (CH) and corneal resistance factor (CRF), separately, were tested. Each standard deviation (SD) decrease in CH and CRF was associated with 0.08 D (95% CI: 0.04-0.12; p)

 AI models have shown promise in performing many medical imaging tasks. Explanations are needed in order to increase the trust of doctors in AI-based models. Such explanations could enable novel scientific discovery.

Physical activity (PA) is related to cardiovascular disease. But the specific association between PA and incident cerebrovascular disease (CBVD) remains uncertain. The current study aimed to investigate the associations between PA levels and the CBVD incidence or all-cause mortality.

Hippocampal atrophy is an established biomarker for conversion from the normal ageing process to developing cognitive impairment and dementia. This study used a novel hypothesis-free machine-learning approach, to uncover potential risk factors. Older age, male sex, greater height, and whole-body fat free mass were the main predictors of low hippocampal volume.

Evidence of modifying effect of various dietary patterns (DPs) on risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D) induced by long-term exposure to air pollution (AP) is still rather lacking. We included 78,230 UK Biobank participants aged 40-70 years.

Sarcopenia is characterized by decreased muscle mass and strength, posing threat to quality of life. Air pollutants are increasingly recognized as risk factors for diseases, while relationship between the two remains to be elucidated. This study investigated whether exposure to ambient air pollution contributes to the development of sarcopenia.

Population-scale, exome-sequenced cohorts with linked electronic health records (EHR) permit genome-first exploration of phenotype. Phenotype and cancer risk are well-characterized in children with a pathogenic  DICER1 variant.

The extent of left ventricular (LV) trabeculation and its relationship with cardiovascular (CV) risk factors is unclear. We applied automated segmentation to UK Biobank cardiac MRI scans to assess the association between individual characteristics and CV risk factors. We found that higher trabECulated LVM was observed with hypertension, higher BMI, and higher physical activity level.

Previous studies have explored associations of white matter hyperintensity with psychiatric disorders, but the sample size is small and the conclusions are inconsistent. The present study aimed to further systematically explore the association in a larger sample. All data were extracted from the UK Biobank.

Cannabis use has increased in recent years. Long-term implications of cannabis use on brain health remain unknown. Study included dementia-free participants of the UK Biobank aged &#8805;60 years.

Diet is a key modifiable risk factor of coronary artery disease (CAD) However, the causal effects of specific dietary traits on CAD risk remain unclear. Mendelian randomization could help enable the efficient estimation of causality in diet-disease associations.

White matter (WM) structure and organization are characterized by slow degradation processes such as demyelination and shrinkage. An acceleration of such aging processes has been linked to the development of a range of diseases. An accurate description of healthy brain maturation, particularly in terms of WM features, is fundamental to the understanding of aging.

An enlarged cup-to-disc ratio (CDR) is a hallmark of glaucomatous optic neuropathy. Manual assessment of the CDR may be less accurate and more time-consuming than automated methods. Here, we sought to develop and validate a deep learning-based algorithm to automatically determine CDR from fundus images.

Metabolites could be used to investigate AMD disease mechanisms or incorporated into AMD risk prediction models. We analyzed 325 directly measured or derived blood metabolites from the UK Biobank for 72 376 donors to identify AMD-associated metabolites. The causal effects of these metabolites in AMD were tested using a 2-sample Mendelian randomization approach. This study underscores the pronounced role of lipids in AMD susceptibility.

Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a highly heritable disease, with 127 identified risk loci to date. Polygenic risk score (PRS) may provide a clinically useful measure of aggregate genetic burden and improve patient risk stratification.

Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a collection of cardiovascular risk factors. We conducted unsupervised clustering on individuals from UK Biobank to reveal endotypes. Five MetS subgroups were identified: non-descriptive, hypertensive, obese, lipodystrophy-like, and hyperglycemic.

Cardiometabolic diseases (CMDs) comorbidities among people with severe mental illnesses (SMI) are associated with a high healthcare burden and premature mortality. Study aims to evaluate whether biological aging has an interaction with SMI on incident CMDs. Data were sourced from the UK Biobank, a large prospective cohort study.

Carriers of the E40K loss-of-function variant in Angiopoietin-like 4 (ANGPTL4), have lower plasma triglyceride levels as well as lower rates of coronary artery disease (CAD) and type 2 diabetes (T2D) These genetic data suggest ANGPLT4 inhibition as a potential therapeutic target for cardiometabolic diseases.

Life's Essential 8 (LE8) score comprised eight metrics: smoking, body mass index, physical activity, non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, blood pressure, glycated haemoglobin, diet and sleep duration. Higher LE8 scores were associated with a lower risk of incident macrovascular and microvascular complications among individuals with T2D.

Food preferences significantly influence dietary choices, yet understanding natural dietary patterns in populations remains limited. We identify four dietary subtypes by applying data-driven approaches to food-liking data from 181,990 UK Biobank participants. The individuals with a balanced diet demonstrated better mental health and superior cognitive functions.

Osteoarthritis (OA) is increasing in prevalence and has a severe impact on patients' lives. We developed a model predicting the five-year risk of OA diagnosis. Higher age, BMI and prescription of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs contributed most to increased OA risk prediction ahead of diagnosis.

 Reproductive risk factors are associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in women. The combined effects of the composite reproductive risk factors on CVD are unknown. This study was performed to construct a reproductive risk score (RRS) to measure reproductive status, examine the association between RRS and CVD and explore the modification effect of healthy lifestyle on the association.

Regular opioid use in chronic pain patients was associated with an increased risk of dementia and poorer brain health when compared to non-opioid analgesic use. These findings imply a need for re-evaluation of opioid prescription practices.

Smokers are at increased risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D), but the underlying mechanisms are unclear. We investigated if the association is mediated by alterations in the metabolome and assessed potential interaction with genetic susceptibility to diabetes or insulin resistance.

Previous research on sleep and aging largely has failed to illustrate the optimal dose-response curve. We aimed to analyze the associations between sleep duration and measures of predicted age. In total, 241,713 participants from the UK Biobank were included.

Long-term exposure to air pollutants is associated with an increased risk of gout. The underlying mechanisms of these associations may involve the participation of five serum biomarkers.

Telomere attrition may share common biological mechanisms with bone and muscle loss with aging. Here, we investigated the association between these hallmarks of aging using data from UK Biobank, a large observational study.

A PRS for coronary artery disease (CAD) was calculated in participants of UK Biobank (n = 432 981) Within each tenth of the PRS distribution, the odds ratios (ORs) were compared between the entire population and subgroups representing the spectrum of clinical risk.

Imaging genetics integrates imaging and genetic techniques to examine how genetic variations influence the function and structure of organs like the brain or heart. The use of organ-wide imaging endophenotypes has increasingly been used to identify potential genes associated with complex disorders. The FPLS-DC method opens up new research avenues and offers valuable insights.

Little is known about how non-suicidal and suicidal self-injury are differentially genetically related to psychopathology and related measures. This research was conducted using the UK Biobank Resource, in participants of European ancestry. In a multivariable model, PGS for anorexia nervosa and suicidal behavior differentiated between NSSI and suicide attempt.

The sample included 202,529 UK Biobank participants aged 40-69 years. Over 10 years, 7,476 participants developed type 2 diabetes. The LRAprs score significantly improved the overall reclassification compared to the LRA.

Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) and diabetic retinopathy (DR) are major diabetic microvascular complications. The kidney and the eye may experience similar metabolic changes in diabetes. This study aimed to use machine learning (ML) methods integrated with metabolic data to identify biomarkers associated with DKD and DR in a multiethnic Asian population.

This study aimed to investigate the association between irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and Parkinson's disease (PD) The dataset contained a substantial cohort of 426,911 participants from the UK Biobank. In univariate Cox regression model, the risk of PD was reduced in IBS patients.

Previous metabolomics studies have highlighted the predictive value of metabolites on upper gastrointestinal (UGI) cancer. This study aimed to evaluate the role of lifestyle and genetic risk in the metabolic mechanism of UGI cancer. A total of 15 metabolites were identified as UGI-cancer-related differential metabolites.

Copy number variants (CNVs) are among the largest genetic variants. CNVs have not been effectively ascertained in most genetic association studies. We ascertained protein-altering CNVs from UK Biobank whole-exome sequencing data (n = 468,570)

There is limited information on the mixture effect and weights of light physical activity (LPA), moderate physical activity. (MPA), and vigorous physicalactivity (VPA) on dementia risk. We included participants aged at least 45 years old without dementia at baseline between 2006-2010.

Large-scale proteomics improves prediction of cardiovascular events beyond traditional risk factors. 2919 plasma proteins were measured in 38 380 participants of the UK Biobank.

Lithium is an established first-line treatment for bipolar disorder. Beyond its therapeutic effect as a mood stabiliser, lithium exhibits potential anti-ageing effects. This study aimed to examine the relationship between the duration of lithium use, biological ageing and mortality.

Prediabetes and lifestyle factors have been associated with the risks of multiple adverse outcomes. But the effect of a healthy lifestyle on prediabetes-related complications remains unknown. We aimed to investigate whether the risks can be offset by a broad combination of healthy lifestyle factors.

Residential greenness is considered a unique and potentially modifiable exposure construct to reduce physiological stress and improve human health. Here this study aims to investigate the longitudinal relationships of residential greenness with incident depression and anxiety. We analyzed data of 409,556 participants from the UK Biobank.

Dry eye disease (DED) and depression (DEP) often comanifest. However, the robustness and the mechanisms underlying this association were undetermined. Three-segment study employed multimodality results to elucidate the association, common pathways and causality between DED and DEP.

Study was sourced from the UK Biobank cohort between 2006 and 2010. Information on physical and mental-related activities were obtained through a touch-screen questionnaire. The adherence to activity patterns of vigorous exercise, housework, and walking predominant patterns were associated with a lower risk of stroke.

We have previously identified a network of higher-order brain regions particularly vulnerable to the ageing process, schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. It remains unknown what the genetic influences on this fragile brain network are, and whether it can be altered by the most common modifiable risk factors for dementia. Here, we show significant genome-wide associations between this brain network and seven genetic clusters implicated in cardiovascular deaths, schizophrenia, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's.

Aspirin has shown potential for cancer prevention, but a recent large randomized controlled trial found no evidence for a reduction in cancer risk. Given the anti-inflammatory effects of aspirin, systemic inflammatory diseases (SID), such as osteoporosis, cardiovascular diseases, and metabolic diseases could potentially modify the aspirin-cancer link.

Large-scale biobanks provide important opportunities for mental health research. But selection biases raise questions regarding the comparability of individuals with those in clinical research settings. This cross-sectional study included participants from the population-based UK Biobank and schizophrenia samples recruited from clinical settings. Data were collected between January 1993 and July 2021.

Frailty, social isolation, and loneliness have individually been associated with adverse health outcomes. This study examines how frailty in combination with loneliness or social isolation is associated with socioeconomic deprivation. Baseline data from 461,047 UK Biobank participants (aged 37-73) were used to assess frailty (frailty phenotype) and social isolation.

Cancer site-specific polygenic risk scores (PRS) effectively identify individuals at high risk of individual cancers. The effectiveness of PRS on overall cancer risk assessment and the extent to which a high genetic risk of overall cancer can be offset by a healthy lifestyle remain unclear. Lifestyle was determined according to smoking, alcohol consumption, physical activity, body mass index, and diet.

Insulin and hyperinsulinemia reduce renal fractional excretion of urate (FeU) and play a key role in the genesis of hyperuricemia and gout, via uncharacterized mechanisms. We found that insulin stimulates the expression of GLUT9 and increases urate uptake in human proximal tubular cells.

Obesity predisposes individuals to multiple cardiometabolic disorders, including type 2 diabetes (T2D) The underlying genes and regulatory mechanisms orchestrating the sex differences in obesity and body fat distribution in humans are not well understood. We identified an adipose gene co-expression network that contains 35 obesity GWAS genes.

Season-of-birth associations with psychiatric disorders point to environmental (co-)aetiological factors such as natural photoperiod that, if clarified, may allow interventions toward prevention. Risk of depression with late spring birth is compatible with increased odds of probable single episode-, probable recurrent-, and diagnosed depression. risk of bipolar disorder with winter-spring birth is not consistent.

Cancer risk is associated with the widely debated measure body mass index (BMI) Fat mass and fat-free mass measurements from bioelectrical impedance may further clarify this association. The UK Biobank is a rare resource in which bioElectrical impedance and BMI data was collected on 500,000 individuals. Using this dataset, a comprehensive analysis using regression, principal component and genome-wide genetic association provided multiple levels of evidence.

Bone mineral density (BMD) is a major predictor of osteoporotic fractures. Previous studies have reported the effects of mitochondrial dysfunction and lifestyle on BMD. However, their interaction effects on B MD are still unclear. We aimed to investigate the possible interaction of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and common lifestyles.

Modifiable risk factors for Parkinson's disease (PD) are poorly known. Vigorous physical activity, low-to-moderate sitting time, and high sleep quality were associated with a reduced risk of PD. Small amounts of coffee (HR = 0.88; 95% CI, 0.82-0.95), red meat, and current smoking were also associated with lower risk.

The main analysis included 21,472 participants with T2D from the UK Biobank. Over a median of 7.7 years of follow-up, 3,976 CVD events occurred. After multivariable adjustment, upper and lower body fat were independently and oppositely associated with CVD risk.

SURPASS-3 MRI substudy compared participants with type 2 diabetes (T2D) by comparison with sex- and BMI-matched virtual control groups. Baseline fat distribution patterns were similar across pooled tirzepatide (5, 10 and 15 mg) and insulin degludec (IDeg) arms. Compared with matched VCGs, SUR PASS-3 participants had higher baseline VAT.

Previous studies have shown that lifestyle/environmental factors could accelerate the development of age-related hearing loss (ARHL) There has not yet been a study investigating the joint association among genetics, lifestyle/ Environmental factors, and adherence to healthy lifestyle for risk of ARHL.

Study used data from a UK biobank of 247,828 adults aged 38-71 free of depression at baseline from March 13, 2006, to October 1, 2010. After a median follow-up of 12.7 years, 7315 participants developed depression. Compared with day workers, HRs of depression were 1.28 (1.19-1.38) for shift work, but never or rarely night shifts.

A 1 mmol/mol increase in genetically predicted HbA1c was associated with higher risk of coronary artery disease (OR 1.03, 95% CI 1.02, 1.05), stroke and hypertension. The shape of the genetic association with cardiovascular outcomes is likely to be linear. The study suggests a detrimental effect of Hb a1c on coronary arteries in both men and women.

Uterine leiomyomas (ULs) are benign tumours of the uterine wall. ULs can cause excessive bleeding, pain and infertility. They emerge through at least three distinct genetic drivers.

 Circulating levels of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been associated with frailty among Koreans. Whether this association exists in Western populations with low fish intake is unknown. Study examined the hypothesis that the prevalence of frailty was inversely associated with plasma levels of PUFAs, with the intake of oily fish, and with fish oil supplementation.

Frailty and multimorbidity are common in type 2 diabetes (T2D), including people. People with T2D are more likely to suffer from obesity, high blood pressure, and high blood sugar.

Spermine oxidase (SMOX) catalyzes the oxidation of spermine to spermidine. Observational studies have reported SMOX as a source of reactive oxygen species associated with cancer. Here we test causality of SMOX levels with cancer risk using a Mendelian randomization analysis. Genetically determined SMOX activity was not associated with neuroblastoma, gastric, lung, breast, prostate nor colorectal cancer.

We generated two polygenic scores, one capturing verbal and the other spatial aspects of cognitive ability. We studied their effects on various diseases and other traits in the Icelandic population. The score tagging spatial ability associated with higher body mass index, but lower risk of schizophrenia and other mental disorders.

A promise of genomics in precision medicine is to provide individualized genetic risk predictions. Polygenic risk scores (PRS) have been developed as a useful tool in complex disease research. PRS typically provide a relative measure of risk evaluated at the level of a group of people.

The impact of adhering to a healthy lifestyle on cholelithiasis risk remains uncertain. We aimed to assess combined lifestyle factors and a polygenic risk score. The relative and absolute risk of incident choleLithiasis associated with six well-established lifestyle risk factors was evaluated and stratified.

A high level of cholesterol is associated with the risk of cardiovascular diseases. Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have proven successful in identifying genetic variants that are linked to cholesterol levels. However, the extent to which genetic effects on cholesterol vary across different ancestries remains largely unexplored.

Study aimed to examine whether younger onset age of orthostatic hypotension was associated with higher risks of incident MI, stroke, and dementia. Data were obtained from the UK Biobank. Younger onset age was significantly associated with high risks of MI.

This paper provides age-, sex-, and ethnicity-specific CMR reference ranges for atrial and ventricular metrics. The Healthy Hearts Consortium is an international collaborative comprising 9,088 CMR studies from verified healthy individuals. The sample included 4,452 men and 4,636 women with average age of 61.1 years.

Chronic musculoskeletal pain (CMP) is a leading cause of disability worldwide and greatly affects a patient's brain. Apart from experiencing pain, older adults with CMP also have accelerated cognitive decline and higher dementia risk. A multiscale study to disentangle pathological brain aging from normal brain aging may reveal the underlying mechanisms.

LiverRisk score had significantly better accuracy and calibration in predicting liver fibrosis. Liver stiffness measurements &#8805;10 kPa were defined as compensated advanced chronic liver disease (cACLD) Compared to the low-risk group, the medium-risk and high-risk groups in the two follow-up cohorts had a significantly higher risk of liver-related and diabetes-related mortality.

Many surveys ask participants to retrospectively record their location of birth. This paper examines the accuracy of such data in the UK Biobank using a sample of full siblings. 28% of birth coordinates, 16% of local districts and 6% of counties of birth were incorrectly reported.

G protein-coupled receptor 37-like 1 (GPR37L1) is an orphan GPCR with largely unknown functions. It ranks among the most highly expressed GPCRs in mouse and human dorsal root ganglia. overexpression of GPR37l1 in mouse DRGs reversed pain. Chemotherapy suppressed KCNJ10 expression and function in SGCs, which MaR1 rescued.

 Genetic pleiotropy is abundant across spatially distributed brain characteristics derived from one neuroimaging modality. Cross-modality genes are involved in fundamental biological processes and predominantly expressed during prenatal brain development. Findings shed light on the shared genetic mechanisms underlying variation in brain morphology and functional connectivity.

Mutations in the Transthyretin (TTR) gene cause a hereditary form of amyloidosis. There is limited information regarding differences among worldwide populations. We compared 676 diverse individuals carrying TTR mutations to 12,430 non-carriers to assess their clinical presentations.

Childhood maltreatment is common globally and impacts morbidity, mortality, and well-being. Our understanding of its impact is constrained by key substantive and methodological limitations of extant research. We address these limitations through a large-scale outcome-wide triangulation study.

Study of pleiotropy at the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) level provides valuable insights into shared genetic signals among phenotypes. Estimated effects from mediation analysis can be confounded by the genetic correlation between phenotypes, leading to inaccurate results. We propose a restricted-maximum-likelihood (REML)-based mediation analysis framework called REML-mediation.

The relationship between inflammatory dietary patterns and the risk of depression/anxiety has not been clearly established. We drew upon a prospective cohort in the UK Biobank and calculated the energy-adjusted dietary inflammatory index (E-DII) Diets with pro-inflammatory characteristics are associated with a heightened risk of anxiety and depression.

The importance of thromboembolism in the pathogenesis of lacunar stroke (LS) resulting from cerebral small vessel disease (cSVD) is debated. Although antiplatelets are widely used in secondary prevention after LS, there is limited trial evidence to support this approach. We sought to evaluate whether altered anticoagulation plays a causal role in LS and cSVD.

The association between serum vitamin D levels and the risk of bowel resection in individuals with IBD remains largely unknown. Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] was measured using direct competitive chemiluminescent immunoassay. Bowel resection events were ascertained via national inpatient data.

Serum sex hormones have been linked to cardiovascular disease risk. However, their roles in the pathogenesis of heart failure (HF) in both men and women are unclear. We investigated the associations between free androgen, testosterone, and estradiol, and future risk of HF.

Infectious diseases were associated with a greater risk of CVD events. High genetic risk and infection synergistically increased the CVD risk. The magnitude of the infection-CVD association showed specificity in sex, pathogen type, infection burden, and infection site.

Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) is a serious global mental health condition that has gotten worse recently. Insomnia, prevalent in 10-20% of adults, is closely associated with depression. Using the UK Biobank database, a prospective cohort design investigated the independent association between insomnia and depression risk.

The complex biological mechanisms underlying human brain aging remain incompletely understood. This study investigated the genetic architecture of three brain age gaps. We identified sixteen genomic loci that reached genome-wide significance (P-value)

Study included participants with hypertension from the UK Biobank cohort. Study exposures included self-reported intakes of coffee, tea, and red wine. High coffee intake was significantly associated with increased risks of cardiovascular mortality and cardiovascular disease. Replacing plain water with tea, but not coffee, significantly reduced the risks of all-cause mortality.

We included 429,886 participants in the UK Biobank who were free of diabetes and diabetes complications at baseline. Food groups were determined using a validated food frequency questionnaire. Outcomes were T2D incidence, complications, and mortality. Higher intake of fresh fruit was significantly associated with lower risk of disease progression.

Cardiovascular disease incidence and mortality have declined across developed economies. Up-to-date cost-effectiveness evidence is required for treatments targeting large populations. Standard and higher intensity statin therapy in the contemporary UK population 40-70 years old.

Sarcopenic obesity, a clinical and functional condition characterized by the coexistence of obesity and sarcopenia, has not been investigated in relation to dementia risk. We included 208,867 participants from UK biobank, who aged 60 to 69 years at baseline. Dementia diagnoses were identified using hospital records and death register data.

Elevated apoB-containing lipoproteins are a major risk factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, including peripheral artery disease (PAD) and myocardial infarction. We tested the hypothesis that remnants and LDL both explain part of the increased risk of PAD.

Study looked at UK Biobank participants who completed 24-hour dietary recalls from 2009 to 2012. The mean UPF consumption was 21.0% (SD, 11.0%) of the total diet. During a median of 11.3 years of follow-up, 2690 incident IBS cases were identified. An 8% higher risk of IBS was associated with every 10% increment of UPF.

Current risk assessment for ischemic stroke (IS) is limited to clinical variables. We hypothesize that polygenic scores (PGS) of IS and IS-associated diseases may improve the performance of IS risk assessment. Incident IS was followed for 479,476 participants in the UK Biobank who did not have an IS diagnosis prior to the recruitment.

APOE &#949;4 carriage associates with beneficial or unfavorable left ventricular (LV) structural and functional metrics by echocardiography and cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) Compared to the non-APOE and#949,4 carriers had similar cardiac phenotypes in terms of LV ejection fraction, E/e', posterior wall and interventricular septal thickness, and LV mass. But they had improved myocardial performance resulting in greater LV stroke volume generation per 1 mL of myocardium.

Questions persist about long-term mental health outcomes and the protective effect of vaccination. Using UK Biobank data, three cohorts were constructed: SARS-CoV-2 infection, contemporary control with no evidence of infection and historical control predating the pandemic. Compared with contemporary controls, infected participants had higher subsequent risks of incident mental health at 1 year.

Having any of the three microvascular diseases was associated with a 48% increase in the hazard of developing arrhythmias. Having optimal levels of risk factors may mitigate this risk.

Cardiovascular disease is a leading cause of global death. Changes in retinal microvasculature are associated with the development of coronary artery disease. Recently, artificial intelligence deep learning algorithms have been developed for the assessment of retinal vessel calibres.

The extent to which the relationships between clinical risk factors and coronary artery disease (CAD) are altered by CAD polygenic risk score (PRS) is not well understood. Here, we determine whether the interactions between clinicalrisk factors and CAD PRS further explain risk for incident CAD.

Few studies have examined the relationship between daytime napping and risk of kidney diseases. We recruited 460,571 European middle- to older-aged adults without prior CKD or ESKD between March 13, 2006, and October 1, 2010, in the UK Biobank. After a mean follow-up of 11.1 (standard deviation 2.2) years, we observed 28,330 incident CKD cases and 927ESKD cases. Daytime napping was associated with an increased risk of CKD.

We analyzed 454,727 UK Biobank whole-exome sequences to characterize the diversity of CFTR variants across ancestries. Europeans had the most unique CFTR variant, while the American group had the least unique variants. F508del was the most prevalent CF-causing variant found in all ancestries, except in EAS, where V520F was theMost prevalent.

The objectives of this study were to investigate the interaction of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and lifestyle factors in the development of psychiatric disorders and to gain greater insight into their pathogenesis and comorbidity. We analyzed data from approximately 150,000 individuals from the UK Biobank.

Brain age is an estimate of chronological age obtained from T1-weighted magnetic resonance images (T1w MRI) Current best accuracy of brain age predictions on T1w MRIs of healthy subjects ranges from two to three years.

Genomics has been forecasted to revolutionise human health by improving medical treatment through a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms of human diseases. Despite great successes of the last decade's genome-wide association studies (GWAS), the results have been translated to genomic medicine to a limited extent.

DHA is a marine omega-3 fatty acid. Study looked at data from UK Biobank between April 2007 and December 2021. Higher DHA levels were associated with significant risk reductions in all-cause mortality.

Short-term alcohol abstinence ( &#946; =1.00, 95% confidence interval [ CI ]: 0.15-1.86) was found to accelerate biological aging when compared to consistent never drinking. Long-term abstinence did not result in a significant acceleration of biological aging.

Genome-wide association studies were performed for 168 ETCs extracted from the 12-lead ECGs of 42,340 Europeans in the UK Biobank. MR analyses support a putative causal effect of the use of diabetes medications on decreasing aVR_T-area, and on increasing risk of IHD and CA.

Data from 350,884 UK Biobank participants were employed to construct an individual deprivation index. Absolute poverty was defined as a pre-tax annual household income below &#8356;18,000. Predictors for absolute poverty incorporated variables such as sex, ethnicity, type of accommodation, tenure status, and educational qualifications.

Study included 9992 women and 15,860 men with T2DM from the UK Biobank. MVDs included retinopathy, peripheral neuropathy, and chronic kidney disease. Healthy lifestyle factors consisted of ideal BMI, nonsmoking, healthy diet, regular exercise, and appropriate sleep duration.

Age-related muscle wasting and dysfunction render the elderly population vulnerable and incapacitated. The underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. We implicate the CERS1 enzyme of the de novo sphingolipid synthesis pathway in pathogenesis of age-related skeletal muscle impairment.

Pathways explaining racial/ethnic and socio-economic status (SES) disparities in white matter integrity (WMI) reflecting brain health, remain underexplored, particularly in the UK population. Race (Non-White vs. White) and lower SES predicted poorer WMI (i.e. lower global mean FA) at follow-up.

Cambridge Multimorbidity scores (CMS) have the potential to achieve these aims using primary care records, but they have not yet been validated outside of their development cohort. We used calibration plots and measures of discrimination to validate the CMS for two of the three outcomes used in the development study (death and primary care consultation rate) and explored variation by age and sex. For all three outcomes considered, the CMS were poorly calibrated.

We present a method for efficiently identifying clusters of identical-by-descent haplotypes in biobank-scale sequence data. Our multi-individual approach enables much more computationally efficient inference of identity by descent (IBD) than approaches that infer pairwise IBD segments. Application of our methods to autosomal sequence data for 125,361 White British individuals in the UK Biobank detects more than 9 million converted alleles.

Genetic mechanisms of blood pressure (BP) regulation remain poorly defined. We identified 889 kidney genes associated with BP of which 399 were prioritised as contributors to BP regulation. We showed that genetically determined reduction in renal expression may mimic the effects of rare loss-of-function variants on kidney mRNA/protein and lead to an increase in BP.

Power Window (PW) is a sliding window technique that identifies the impactful regions of a gene using population-scale clinico-genomic datasets. The windows can be built by sliding across either the nucleotide sequence of the gene (through 1D space) or the positions of the amino acids in the folded protein (through 3D space).

Glymphatic function is involved in Alzheimer's disease (AD) Potential for predicting the pathological and clinical progression of AD is poorly understood. Lower ALPS index was significantly associated with faster changes in amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) burden and AD signature region of interest volume.

Generating virtual organ populations that capture sufficient variability is essential to conduct in silico trials (ISTs) of medical devices. Not all anatomical shapes of interest are always available for each individual in a population. The proposed generative model can synthesize complete multipart shape assemblies coined virtual chimeras (VCs)

Cross-sectional analysis of 40,189 patients in the UK Biobank who underwent liver MRI. Hepatic steatosis was determined by proton density fat fraction (PDFF) &#8805;5%. Participants were classified as alcohol-associated steatotic liver disease (ALD), metabolic dysfunction- associated steatotes disease (MASLD) and at-risk MASH.

The connection between triglyceride-rich lipoproteins and cardiometabolic multimorbidity has not been definitively established. We show that elevated remnant cholesterol and triglycerides are significantly associated with gradually higher risks of the disease. These results advocate for effective management of remnant cholesterol as a potential strategy in mitigating the risks.

Di-2-ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP) has been considered possibly carcinogenic to humans. Large-scale longitudinal evidence is needed to further clarify its carcinogenicity. Highest quartile of baseline DEHP associated with 1.11 fold risk of carcinoma in situ.

Iron status biomarkers for coronary artery disease (CAD), heart failure (HF), ischemic stroke (IS), and type 2 diabetes (T2D) are uncertain. Iron biomarkers included transferrin saturation, serum iron, ferritin, and total iron binding capacity. Observational analyses of hemoglobin were compared with genetically predicted hemoglobin with cardiovascular diseases and diabetes.

 serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) was inversely associated with the risk of new-onset peripheral neuropathy among participants with diabetes. The inverse association was significantly attenuated among participants without diabetes.

Current findings on structural differences in Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) identified using network approaches remain inconsistent. It is still uncertain at what level of the connectome hierarchy differences may exist, and whether they are concentrated in hubs, disrupting fundamental brain connectivity.

Physical activity (PA) is linked to a decreased risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) However, the influence of circadian PA trajectories remains uncertain. This study aims to explore the optimal circadian PA trajectory pattern for reducing the risk of T2DM.

The European Association for the Study of the Liver introduced a clinical pathway for screening significant/advanced fibrosis in people at risk of steatotic liver disease (SLD) We assessed the performance of the first-step FIB4 EASL CP in the general population across different SLD risk groups and various age classes.

There is currently no medical therapy to prevent calcific aortic valve stenosis (CAVS) Multi-omics approaches could lead to the identification of novel molecular targets.

In 2015, the World Health Organization introduced the concept of intrinsic capacity to define the individual-level characteristics that enable an older person to be and do the things they value. This study developed an intrinsic capacity score for UK Biobank study participants and validated its use as a tool for health outcome prediction.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) can lead to irreversible liver damage. The association of spleen volume with NAFLD and related type 2-diabetes (T2D) is not fully understood. UK Biobank contains comprehensive health-data of 500,000 participants.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac arrythmia. It is associated with increased risk for ischemic stroke, which is underestimated. The aim of this study was to develop optimal ML models for prediction of AF in the population.

Study aims to examine how ageing affects the self-reported and accelerometer-derived measures of physical activity levels in middle-aged adults. Self-reported physical activity level increased with age and was the highest in group III.

Evidence linking housing density with loneliness and social isolation has been scarce. We leveraged data from UK Biobank, a cohort of adult participants aged 37-73 years recruited between 2006 and 2010. Neighbourhood housing unit density was measured within a walkable scale of 1km and 2km street catchments of participant's geocoded dwelling.

'Benign ethnic neutropenia' (BEN) is a heritable condition characterized by lower neutrophil counts. BEN is predominantly observed in individuals of African ancestry. We aimed to dissect the genetic architecture underlying neutrophill count variation. We identified 73 loci (r2 = 0.1) and 10 index SNPs (GCTA-COJO loci) associated with neutrophils.

 MRI-derived kidney volume measurements from 38 526 UK Biobank participants were analysed. Higher BSA-adjusted TKV was significantly associated with higher estimated glomerular filtration rate.

Study aimed to evaluate impact of seasonal serum vitamin D (25(OH)D) levels on dementia and its subtypes. We analyzed 193,003 individuals aged 60-73 at baseline (2006-2010) from the UK Biobank cohort, with follow-up until 2018. Vitamin D deficiency was associated with a 1.5-fold (95% CIs: 1.2-2.0) increased incidence of dementia.

Low birth weight and unhealthy lifestyle are both associated with an increased risk of hypertension. The authors aimed to assess the joint association and interaction of birth weight. The preventive effect of healthy lifestyle on hypertension was the most pronounced at lower birth weight with.

In utero exposure to a higher area-level infant mortality rate is associated with genetic predispositions correlated with better educational attainment and health. Corrections for this selection in examinations of effects of exposure on later educational attainment suggest underestimates of 26-74%; effects on other life course outcomes also vary across selection correction methods.

Individuals with cardiovascular disease (CVD) are particularly vulnerable to dementia. It remains unclear whether air pollution exposure links with higher risk of dementia among those with CVD. The data were derived from the UK Biobank study (UKB)

A pro-inflammatory diet was associated with an adverse profile of biomarkers linked to cardiometabolic health, endocrine, liver function, and renal health. The concentration difference ranged from 0.27 SD for creatinine to 0.03 SD for total cholesterol.

The contribution of modifiable risk factors to social inequalities in dementia remains unclear. We aimed to quantify the role of cardiovascular health factors, assessed using Life's Essential 8 (LE8) score, in mediating social inequalities. We collected data from the UK Whitehall II Study and UK Biobank databases.

Genetically predicted DNA methylation models were established (n = 2478) These models were applied to genome-wide association study data on HST. A poly-methylation risk score (PMRS) was established in 241,008 individuals from the UK Biobank.

Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) has been linked to diverse risk factors. We used a phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) approach to systematically investigate phenotypes associated with genetic predisposition to HNSCC. We found significant association with phenotypes related to tobacco use disorder, alcoholism, emphysema and chronic airway obstruction.

 Educational attainment (EA) has been linked to the risk of several types of cancer, despite having no expected direct biological connection. We investigate the mediating role of alcohol consumption, smoking, vegetable consumption, fruit consumption and body mass index (BMI) in explaining the effect of EA on 7 cancer groupings.

Delirium and depression are prevalent in aging. Long-term relationship between depression and delirium remains unclear. This study assessed the associations of depression symptom burden and its trajectory with Delirium risk in a 12-year prospective study of older hospitalized individuals.

HFE  haemochromatosis genetic variants have an uncertain clinical penetrance. We estimated p.C282Y and p.H63D variant cumulative incidence of multiple clinical outcomes. Cumulative incidences were estimated from age 40 years to 80 years.

 Epicardial and pericardial adipose tissue (EPAT) has been associated with cardiovascular diseases such as atrial fibrillation or flutter (AF) and coronary artery disease (CAD) It has been suggested that the association between EPAT and cardiovascular disease could be mediated by local or paracrine effects. A genome-wide association study was performed, and a polygenic score (PGS) for EPAT was examined.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is associated with an increased risk of premature death. Whether multifactorial risk factor modification could attenuate T2D-related excess risk of death is unclear. We aimed to examine the association of risk factor target achievement with mortality and life expectancy.

The global dementia prevalence is surging, necessitating research into contributing factors. We aimed to investigate the association between metabolic syndrome (MetS) and dementia risk. The prospective study comprised 466,788 participants without pre-existing MetS from the UK Biobank.

Migraine patients had a significantly increased risk of developing AD. Migraine patients exhibit an increased predisposition of genetic susceptibility to AD. These findings hold significant clinical value for early intervention and treatment of migraines.

25-hydroxyvitamin D (25-OHD) was found to be linked to poorer colorectal cancer (CRC) survival outcomes. Findings were consistent across patients with varied tumour sites and stages.

Prenatal and postnatal factors may have joint effects on cardiovascular health. We aimed to assess the association of birth weight and ideal cardiovascular health metrics (ICVHMs) prospectively in adulthood with incident cardiovascular disease (CVD)

Physical abuse can lead to severe health consequences that extend beyond immediate harm. We explored the associations of physical abuse experienced during childhood and adulthood with a wide range of adult health conditions requiring hospital treatment.

The presence of tinnitus was found to be associated with a higher incident rate of the primary outcome (HR = 1.057, 95%CI: 1.017-1.099,  p  = 0.005) After adjusting for confounders, there was no significant association between tinnitis and stroke or mortality.

Vitamin D deficiency is defined by serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels. Longitudinal studies assessing the association of vitamin D deficiency.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk is increased in carriers of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) &#949;4 allele. Risk decreased in & #949;2 allele carriers compared with the &#972;3 genotype. The aim of this study was to determine whether the APOE genotype affects brain grey (GM) or white matter (WM) structure.

The goal of this study is to quantify the assumptions associated with the Wasserman-Hansen (WH) and Fitness Registry (FRIEND) predictive peak oxygen consumption (pVO 2 ) equations across body mass index (BMI) Assumptions in pVO 2  for both equations were first determined using a simulation and then evaluated using exercise data from the Stanford Exercise Testing registry.

The impact of the difference between cystatin C- and creatinine-based estimated glomerular filtration rate on diabetic microvascular complications (DMCs) remains unknown. We investigated the associations of eGFRdiff with overall DMCs and subtypes, including diabetic retinopathy (DR), diabetic kidney disease (DKD), and diabetic neuropathy (DN)

Higher 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) concentrations in serum has a positive association with pulmonary function. Investigating genome-wide interactions with 25(OHD) may reveal new biological insights into pulmonary function, authors say.

A total of 366,478 participants were studied. The highest versus lowest quartile air pollution score was linked to a 44% increase in respiratory mortality risk. Long-term individual and joint air-pollutant exposure showed a dose-response association.

A polygenic risk score (PRS) combines associations of multiple genetic variants that could be due to direct causal effects, indirect genetic effects, or other sources of familial confounding. We developed new approaches to assess evidence for and against causation by using family data for pairs of relatives.

Thiazides, but not loop diuretics, and increased BMI and decreased serum potassium should be considered as contributing factors in subjects with hypophosphatemia. Further studies are needed to replicate the findings and elucidate the potential role of hypokalemia as a mediator.

Smoking initiation has widespread risk effects on asthma, type 2 diabetes, and peripheral vascular disease. Alcohol consumption shows risk effects specifically on cardiovascular diseases, dyslipidemia, and hypertensive diseases. We find evidence of dosage-dependent effects of coffee and tea intake on common diseases (e.g., cardiovascular disease and osteoarthritis)

Inflammatory responses to acute stimuli are proposed to regulate sleep. Relationship between chronic inflammation and habitual sleep duration is elusive. We study this relation using genetically predicted level of chronic inflammation, indexed by CRP and IL6 signaling, and self-reported sleep duration.

Glaucoma is suspected to exhibit a notable association with psychological disturbances. This study aimed to investigate epidemiological associations and explore shared genetic architecture. Despite the absence of global genetic correlations, MiXeR analysis revealed 300 variants shared between glaucomas and depression.

No medication has been found to reduce liver-related events. We evaluated the effect of sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitor (SGLT2i) on outcomes. Single nucleotide polymorphisms were identified and a genetic risk score (GRS) was computed using UK Biobank data.

Recent genome-wide association studies have successfully identified associations between genetic variants and simple cardiac morphological parameters. Here we propose a framework for gene discovery coined unsupervised phenotype ensembles. We applied our approach to the UK Biobank database.

Study examined associations between microvascular disease (MVD) and risk of stroke, dementia, and their major subtypes among individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) We included 26,173 participants with T2DM from the UK Biobank who had no known stroke or dementia at baseline.

Gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) impairments are both associated with raised blood pressure (BP) Whether elevated BP is differentially associated with the GM and WM aging process remains inadequately examined. Study provided compelling evidence that concerted efforts should be directed towards WM damage in individuals with hypertension.

Aging is a risk factor for cancer incidence and mortality. Biological aging can reflect the aging degree of the body better than chronological age. A healthier lifestyle is more likely to mitigate the adverse effects of biological aging on overall cancer and some site-specific cancers.

Systemic inflammation and frailty have been implicated in osteoporosis (OP) and fracture risks. This study aimed to assess the associations of systemic inflammation and. frailty phenotype with incident OP and fracture and to evaluate the. mediating role of frailty.

Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis is increasingly popular for testing the causal effect of exposures on disease outcomes. In some settings, the underlying exposure may not be directly observable, but measurements can be available on multiple biomarkers or other types of traits that are co-regulated by the exposure. We propose a method for MR analysis on latent exposures (MRLE), which tests the significance for, and the direction of, a latent exposure.

Poor oral health may cause inflammation, which accelerates the progression of neurodegenerative diseases. We investigated the relationship between oral health and glaucoma in the UK Biobank. We found no adverse association between self-reported oral health conditions and either glau coma or elevated intraocular pressures.

Consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages (SSB), artificially sweetened drinks (ASB), and pure fruit juice (PJ) was associated with an increased risk of atrial fibrillation. No significant interactions were observed between the consumption of SSB, ASB, or PJ and genetic predisposition to AF.

BMI is a commonly used estimate of obesity, which is a complex trait affected by genetic and lifestyle factors. Marked weight gain and loss could be associated with adverse biological processes. This cohort study found that among US veterans, higher BMI variability was a significant risk marker.

Recent human genome-wide association studies have identified common missense variants in MARC1, p.Ala165Thr and p.Met187Lys. These variants are associated with lower hepatic fat, reduction in liver enzymes and protection from most causes of cirrhosis. In vitro studies of recombinant humanMARC1 protein revealed Ala165ThR substitution causes protein instability and aberrant localization in liver cells.

 Epidemiological evidence for long-term air pollution exposure and Parkinson's disease (PD) is controversial. We identified 293,888 participants who were free of PD at baseline in the UK Biobank (2006-2010) During a median of 11.6 years of follow-up, 1822 incident PD cases were identified. There were no significant associations between air pollution and negative control outcomes.

Low-carbohydrate high-fat (LCHF) diets have attracted interest for a variety of conditions. In some individuals, these diets trigger hypercholesterolemia. There are limited data on their effects on cardiovascular disease risk. The purpose of this study was to investigate the association between LCHF dietary patterns and incident major adverse cardiovascular events.

Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a deadly disease most often diagnosed in late stages. Known risk factors, assessed independently, are currently insufficient for accurately stratifying patients. We use large-scale data from the UK Biobank to identify genetic variant-smoking interaction effects and show their importance in risk assessment.

The antagonistic pleiotropy hypothesis is one of the leading theories in the evolutionary origin of aging. It states that mutations contributing to aging could be positively selected for if they are advantageous early in life and promote earlier reproduction or more offspring. The UK Biobank contains the genotypes and various phenotypes of 500,000 participants, offering an opportunity to test this hypothesis in humans.

Gallstone disease (GSD) associates with significant morbidity and mortality. Decreased secretion of bile acids has been suggested as a driving factor for GSD. Recently, we linked the protein phosphatase 1 regulatory subunit 3 beta (PPP1R3B) genotype to decreased bile acid levels in bile.

Traditional polygenic risk scoring methods fall short, as they are built on additive models that fail to capture the intricate associations among single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) DeepRisk is a biological knowledge-driven deep learning method for modeling these complex, nonlinear associations among SNPs. It outperforms existing PRS-based methods in identifying individuals at high risk for four common diseases.

Phospholipid transfer protein (PLTP) transfers surface phospholipids between lipoproteins. PLTP plays a role in lipoprotein metabolism, but with unclear effects on coronary artery disease (CAD) risk. We aimed to investigate associations of genetically-influenced PLTP activity with 1-H nuclear magnetic resonance ( 1 H-NMR) metabolomic measures and with CAD.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) explain the genetic susceptibility between diseases and common variants. With the appearance of large-scale sequencing profiles, we could explore the rare coding variants in disease pathogenesis. We identified 102 significant independent variants at single-variant levels for lung cancer and five lung cancer-related diseases.

 Persistent infections, whether viral, bacterial or parasitic, including Helicobacter pylori infection, have been implicated in non-communicable diseases. Data on 635 cognitively normal participants from the UK Biobank study (2006-21, age range: 40-70 years) were used.

The NIT1-small vessel disease is a novel, autosomal recessively inherited cerebral small vessel disease. It is characterized by a triad of movement disorders, massively dilated basal ganglia perivascular spaces, and intracerebral hemorrhage.

Few studies have assessed the relationship between food environments and the risk of heart failure (HF) We aimed to evaluate the association between ready-to-eat food. environments and incident HF at an individual level in a large prospective cohort. Closer proximity to and greater density of ready- to-eat. food environments was associated with a higher risk of incident HF.

Phenylalanine and apolipoprotein A1 had the strongest association when comparing the highest to the lowest quintile. Triglycerides within all lipoproteins were positively associated with hypertension risk. Adding 10 selected metabolic biomarkers to the traditional hypertension risk model modestly improved discrimination.

Many observational studies support light-to-moderate alcohol intake as potentially protective against premature death. We used a genetic approach to evaluate the linear and nonlinear relationships between alcohol consumption and mortality from different underlying causes. In conventional analysis, the association was 'J-shaped' But MR analyses supported a positive linear association with premature mortality.

The pandemic of the coronavirus disease 2019 resulted in an increased prevalence of social isolation and loneliness. Cox proportional hazards regression was used to test the association between social isolation/loneliness and multiple cardiometabolic diseases. Compared with those with the least loneliness, those who with most loneliness had about 20% increased risk of CMD.

The semiparametric Cox proportional hazards model, together with the partial likelihood principle, has been widely used to study the effects of potentially time-dependent covariates on a possibly censored event time. We propose a computationally efficient method for fitting the Cox model to big data involving millions of study subjects.

Previous fracture may be an important marker for identifying subsequent dementia in middle-aged and older men. The study demonstrated that prior fracture was associated with an increased risk of dementia in men but not in women.

26 164 adults with depression were included from UK Biobank between 2006 and 2010. Depression was defined as a physician's diagnosis in hospital admissions or the use of prescribed antidepressant medication. A weighted healthy lifestyle score was calculated based on smoking, alcohol consumption, diet, sleep pattern, physical activity, social health, employment status and greenspace interaction.

Lifetime risks of dementia and AD were lower in cancer survivors compared to those without cancer. This effect was more pronounced in participants with cancer history exposure&#8805;5 years. Similar relationship was observed in individual cancer types, except for breast cancer.

Prior pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) might be associated with the development of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) The impact of prior PTB on the risk of incident COPD has not been studied in a large prospective cohort study of the European population.

Resting heart rate (RHR), has been related to increased risk of dementia, but the relationship between RHR and brain age is unclear. We aimed to investigate the association of RHR with brain age and the brain age gap.

The role of dysglycaemia as a risk marker for Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma is uncertain. We investigated the relationship between glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) and incident PDAC using a retrospective cohort study within the UK Biobank.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) affects millions of individuals worldwide. Body mass index is a known risk factor for CAD. More accurate metrics of body fat, including waist-to-hip circumference ratio (WHR), could be more meaningful clinically.

The relationship between MetS and lung cancer remains controversial. Both the incidence of lung cancer and the prevalence of metabolic syndrome (MetS) have been increasing worldwide.

Previous results on the association between the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and stroke are mixed. Most studies derived the eGFR from serum creatinine, which is affected by non-kidney determinants. We included 429 566 UK Biobank participants (94.5% white, 54% women) free of stroke at enrollment.

Liver cirrhosis is a major cause of death worldwide. Cirrhosis develops after a long asymptomatic period of fibrosis progression. Few reliable tools exist for timely identification of individuals at risk. We aimed to develop a novel score to identify those at risk for future liver-related outcomes.

The apolipoprotein E (APOE) plays a central role in lipid metabolism, vascular disease and dementia. Rare mutations in APOE, predicted to be deleterious, are present in 1 in 257 individuals in the general population. For individuals with genetically predicted high plasma apoE and remnant cholesterol the risk for PAD was increased.

There is robust evidence for sex differences in domain-specific cognition. females typically show an advantage for verbal memory, whereas males tend to perform better in spatial memory. Sex differences in brain connectivity are well documented and may provide insight into these differences.

Smoking contributes to a variety of neurodegenerative diseases and abnormalities. Smoking is associated with accelerated brain aging. The neurobiological mechanisms affected by smoking, and whether they are genetically influenced, remain to be investigated.

Traf2- and NCK-interacting protein kinase (TNIK) is a recently identified obesity- and T2D-associated gene with unknown functions. Loss of the Drosophila ortholog of TNIK altered the metabolite profiles and impaired de novo lipogenesis in high sugar-fed larvae. Tnik knockout mice exhibited hyperlocomotor activity.

Cross-sectionally assessed 168 non-fasting plasma metabolites measured by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. Albumin, 3 hydroxybutyrate, lactate, and several lipids were associated with higher IOP. In metabolite class analysis, the lipid components of lipoproteins (cholesterol, triglycerides, etc.) were not associated with our outcomes.

 Alterations in fMRI-based brain functional network connectivity (FNC) are associated with schizophrenia. Age-sensitive FNC changes may be relevant to SCZ risk-related FNC. We used independent component analysis to estimate FNC from childhood to adulthood in 9,236 individuals.

 type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is commonly considered a putative causal risk factor for stroke. The intrinsic link underlying T2DM and stroke has not been thoroughly examined. We evaluated phenotypic associations using data from the UK Biobank. We then investigated genetic relationships by leveraging genomic data in European ancestry.

Study looked at whether retinal neurodegeneration was associated with incident all-cause dementia and Alzheimer's disease. After adjustment, lower baseline macular retinal nerve fiber layer thickness was significantly associated with a 10% and 11% higher incidence of dementia and AD, respectively. Lower macular ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer thickness wasn't significantly associated.

Dietary advanced glycation end products (AGEs) might exert adverse effects on cognition. The associations between dietary AGEs and long-term risk of dementia are yet to be assessed in large population studies. We aimed to explore whether elevated dietary A GEs intake is associated with increased risk of. dementia, and whether this association might be affected by genetic risk.

Study looked at the association between the Mediterranean lifestyle and all-cause, cancer, and cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality in a British population. Adopting a Mediterranean lifestyle adapted to the local characteristics of non-Mediterranean populations may be possible.

Quantile regression provides a natural framework for modelling such heterogeneity. We propose a new method for inference on heterogeneous quantile treatment effects. Our estimator combines an &#8467;1-penalised regression adjustment with a quantile-specific bias correction scheme.

Advanced diffusion approaches allow for estimation of intra-axonal water fraction (AWF), describing a key structural characteristic of brain tissue. AWF can be interpreted as an indirect measure or proxy of neurite density and has a potential as useful clinical biomarker. Voxel-wise analysis revealed age-related differences in AWF-based brain asymmetry.

Telomere length (TL) is a biomarker of genomic aging. The evidence on the association between TL and air pollution was inconsistent. We aimed to evaluate the association of ambient air pollution with TL and further assess the modification effect of genetic susceptibility.

Among older adults, total and hospitalized infection may be associated with incidence of all-cause and Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementias, with variation by cardiovascular health (CVH) We used Cox proportional hazards (PH) models to examine the relationships between International Classification of Diseases-10th revision (ICD-10)-specific viral and bacterial infectious agents.

Short telomere length may be targeted by increased physical activity to reduce the risk of multiple aging-related diseases, including coronary heart disease. Data were from the UK Biobank participants with well-calibrated accelerometer data for at least 6.5 days (n = 54,180). Relative mean LTL at baseline (5-6 years prior to aPA assessment) was measured in T/S ratio, using a multiplex quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) technology.

Study included 18,092 individuals with type 2 diabetes from the UK Biobank. During a median follow-up of 12.1 years, 672 individuals (3.7%) were diagnosed with neuropathy. Any level of physical activity was associated with a lower risk of neuropathy and nephropathy but not retinopathy.

Almost one-third of participants reported sleeping shorter (24.7%) than age-corrected recommended sleep durations. The incidence of shorter or longer sleep increased with social deprivation and varied with ethnicity. Snoring, waking during the night, finding it difficult to get up in the morning and sleeping in the daytime were subject to similar effects.

Using UK Biobank (UKB) survey data, 472 397 participants who had not previously been diagnosed with cancer and whose self-reported sex was consistent with their genetic sex were studied. Information on prevalence of previous chronic lung diseases, general demographic characteristics and the prevalence of lung cancer was collected using baseline questionnaires and national health system data.

Higher ALAN exposure was associated with increased risk of mental disorders. The associations were stronger in participants with high iron deposition in left hippocampus, left accumbens and left pallidum.

Kidney dysfunction is associated with increased inflammation. Kidney function markers and C-reactive protein (CRP) were evaluated in the UK Biobank. Potassium was associated with endometrioid and clear cell tumors.

Systemic inflammation has been implicated in the etiology of selected neurodegenerative disorders, but its role in the development of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is untested. We quantified the relationship of C-reactive protein (CRP), an acute-phase reactant and marker of systemic inflammation, with subsequent ALS occurrence.

74% of 245 genome-wide significant genetic associations with age at natural menopause show a form of age-specific effect. DNA damage response processes only act to shape ovarian reserve and depletion for women of early ANM. Genetically mediated delays in ANM were associated with increased relative risk of breast cancer and leiomyoma at all ages.

Sex steroid hormone fluctuations may underlie both reproductive disorders and sex differences in lifetime depression prevalence. Previous studies report high comorbidity among reproductive disorders. This study sought to assess whether this latent factor shares a common genetic architecture with female depression, including perinatal depression.

Study included 437,932 participants from the UK Biobank with a median follow-up period of over 10 years. Participants exposed to PM 2.5 levels of &#8805;10 &#956;g/m 3 had a higher risk of developing all-cause dementia (HR = 1.1; 95% CI: 1.05-1.28) On the other hand, participants exposed to NOx levels of&#8705;50 &#976;g-m 3  had a significantly higher risk.

The associations between hip/knee osteoarthritis (OA) and various psychiatry disorders remain unclear. Based on the community-based prospective data of UK Biobank, we constructed two matched cohorts to assess the bidirectional associations between OA and five common psychiatry disorders. Using GWAS summary statistics, we identified several shared genes and pathways, particularly the biological process related to HDAC histones. The findings of shared genetic architectures between knee Oa and depression/stress-related disorder provided possible targets for further mechanistic exploration and intervention development.

Current understanding of determinants for COVID-19-related cardiovascular and thromboembolic (CVE) complications primarily covers clinical aspects with limited knowledge on genetics and lifestyles. Here, we analysed a prospective cohort of 106,005 participants from UK Biobank with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection. We show that higher polygenic risk scores, indicating individual's hereditary risk, were linearly associated with increased risks.

Long-term exposures to PM 2.5 , PM 10 , NO 2 , and NO x were associated with increased BD risk. Associations were still observed and even stronger at pollutant concentrations lower than WHO air quality guideline. These findings could help inform policy makers regarding ambient air quality standards and BD management.

The association between serum calcium and COPD risk remains unclear. We included 386,844 participants with serum calcium measurements and without airway obstruction at the baseline from UK Biobank. Compared to participants with normal serum calcium, a 14% higher risk of COPD was observed in hypercalcemic participants.

We aimed to test the associations of sugar-sweetened beverages (SSB) with the risk of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) Data for 136 277 UK Biobank participants who completed the dietary questionnaire and did not have a history of liver disease were included. Excessive consumption of ASBs was associated with an increased risk of incident hospitalized NAFLD.

A genome-wide meta-analysis of 100 studies in up to 835,465 individuals reveals 493 independent genetic variants in 352 loci, including 68 genetic variants outside previously identified resting heart rate associated loci. We prioritize 670 genes and in silico annotations point to their enrichment in cardiomyocytes and provide insights in their ECG signature. We do not find evidence for a linear or non-linear genetic association between resting heart rates and all-cause mortality.

Obesity is associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic low-grade inflammation. Although chronic inflammatory conditions and diabetes are associated with anaemia, less is known about associations of obesity and body shape, independent of each other, with erythrocyte and reticulocyte parameters.

Obesity contributes substantially to the global burden of disease and has a significant heritable component. We identified genes in which rare heterozygous loss-of-function increases adult BMI in women ( DIDO1, PTPRG,  and  SLC12A5 ) and in men ( SLTM ), with effect sizes up to &#8764;8 kg/m 2 . This is complemented by analyses implicating rare variants in OBSCN and MADD for recalled childhood adiposity.

Immune dysregulation has been widely observed in patients with psychiatric disorders. This study aims to examine the association between HLA alleles and depression and anxiety. HLA-A*02:07 × cigarette smoking was associated with depression score. Sex stratification analysis revealed significant sex-based differences in the interaction effects of certain HLA.

Many diseases show patterns of co-occurrence, possibly driven by systemic dysregulation of underlying processes affecting multiple traits. We have developed a method (treeLFA) for identifying such multimorbidities from routine health-care data. We also show that treeLFA improves upon existing methods like latent Dirichlet allocation.

Study included 175 543 employed or self-employed workers who participated in the UK Biobank baseline survey (2006-2010) During a median (IQR) follow-up of 9.06 (8.35-9.75) years, 3956 workers (2.3%) developed depression and 2838 (1.7%) developed anxiety. Individuals who reported engaging in shift work, or shift workers, had a higher risk of depression.

Cross-sectional study jointly modeled parental and offspring polygenic scores (PGSs) across 9 traits to test for the association of genetic nurture with lifetime broad depression and neuroticism. A broad depression phenotype was measured in 38 702 offspring from 20 905 independent nuclear families.

Vitamin D deficiency is commonly associated with sarcopenia. The latest International Clinical Practice Guidelines for Sarcopenia do not recommend vitamin D supplementation. It remains unclear whether such suboptimal levels can maintain optimal health. Randomized clinical trials are required to verify the potential causality.

Previous research has shown associations between eczema and psoriasis and anxiety and depression. We investigated whether associations are consistent across different settings of ascertainment for depression and anxiety. We analysed 230,047 people with linked Biobank and primary care data.

Little is known about the association between pure fruit/vegetable juices and AD. This prospective cohort study of the UK Biobank included 206,606 participants aged 39-72 years free of dementia at baseline between 2006 and 2010. The consumption of SSBs and ASBs was associated with a higher risk of AD. However, participants who drank > 1-2 units/d of pure fruit and veg juices had a lower risk.

The evidence regarding the association between leucocyte telomere length (LTL) and brain health is sparse and inconclusive. LTL in the peripheral blood was measured by the quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assay from 439 961 individuals in the UK Biobank recruited between 2006 and 2010.

The healthy aging index (HAI) has been recently developed as a surrogate measure of biological age. We aimed to quantify the association between the HAI and mortality in a population of UK adults. 387,794 middle-aged and older participants were followed up for a median of 8.9 years (IQR 8.3-9.5) A total of 14,112 all-cause deaths were documented.

The burden of depression and anxiety in the world is rising. Identification of individuals at increased risk of developing these conditions would help to target them for prevention and ultimately reduce the healthcare burden. If deployed in a digital solution, it would allow individuals to track their risk, as well as provide some pointers to how to decrease it.

Major histocompatibility (MHC) molecules are capable of presenting neoantigens resulting from somatic mutations on cell surfaces, potentially directing immune responses against cancer. This led to the hypothesis that cancer driver mutations may occur in gaps in MHC capacity. If this is correct, it has important implications for understanding oncogenesis.

Human same-sex sexual behaviour (SSB) is heritable, confers no obvious direct reproductive or survival benefit and can divert mating effort from reproductive opportunities. This presents a Darwinian paradox: why has SSB been maintained despite apparent selection against it? We show that genetic effects associated with SSB may confer a mating advantage.

There is considerable interest in GIPR agonism to enhance the insulinotropic and extrapancreatic effects of GIP, thereby improving glycemic and weight control in type 2 diabetes (T2D) and obesity. Recent genetic epidemiological evidence has implicated higher GIPr-mediated GIP levels in raising coronary artery disease (CAD) risk. We aimed to quantitatively assess whether the association between higher G IP levels and CAD risk is mediated via G IPR or is instead the result of linkage disequilibrium.

A large volume of clinical genomics data has become available due to rapid advances in sequencing technologies. Current resources providing disease-phenotype associations are not comprehensive. We developed a semi-automatic way to collect ICD-10-phenotypes associations from existing resources.

The prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is rapidly increasing worldwide due to the ongoing obesity epidemic. Currently the NALFD diagnosis requires non-readily available imaging technologies or liver biopsy. Here we utilized the large UK Biobank (UKB) to accurately estimate the NAFLD status in UKB based on common serum traits and anthropometric measures.

Osteoarthritis affects over 300 million people worldwide. We identify 100 independently associated risk variants across 11 osteoarth arthritis phenotypes, 52 of which have not been associated with the disease before. We provide evidence for genetic correlation with phenotypes related to pain, the main disease symptom.

Evidence from observational studies suggests a positive association between serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels and differentiated thyroid carcinoma. Using Mendelian randomization (MR) methodology, this study aimed to investigate the causal role of TSH in both benign thyroid nodules and thyroid cancer. We observed evidence of an inverse association between TSH levels and both thyroid cancer and benign nodular thyroid disease.

Tea drinkers were 16% (95% confidence interval: 8-23) less likely to develop dementia compared with non-drinkers. Moderate consumption (1-6 cups/day) exerted significant protective effects.

Albuminuria was associated with worse performance on tasks of verbal-numeric reasoning. Interaction between kidney function markers and a polygenic risk score for general cognitive function was assessed.

Healthy lifestyle factors included no/moderate alcohol consumption, no smoking, physical activity, and a healthy diet. Over the follow-up (median: 12.1 years), 6206 participants developed gout. Compared to low genetic risk, the hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) of gout was 1.44 for middle and 1.77 for high genetic risk.

 TOP-LD is an online tool to explore LD inferred with high-coverage (&#8764;30×) WGS data from 15,578 individuals in the NHLBI Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine (TOPMed) program. It offers 2.6- to 9.1-fold increase in variant coverage compared to HaploReg 4.0 or LDlink. In addition, TOP- LD includes tens of thousands of structural variants (SVs)

UK Biobank is a prospective cohort study of around half-a-million general population participants, recruited between 2006 and 2010. From 2014 to date, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been pursued in a participant sub-sample, with the aim to scan around n  = 100k. This sub- sample is studied widely and therefore understanding its relative characteristics is important for future reports.

The association between severe mental illness (SMI) and cardiovascular and metabolic disease (CMD) is poorly understood. PCSK9 is expressed in systems critical to both SMI and CMD and influences lipid homeostasis and brain function. We used genetic data from white British ancestry individuals of UK Biobank.

Genotype imputation is an integral tool in genome-wide association studies. In principle, combining all sequenced whole genomes into a single large panel would provide the best imputation performance. Here, we describe a method that allows imputation results generated using different reference panels to be combined into a consensus imputed dataset.

Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) profiling was undertaken on baseline plasma samples in 65,684 UK Biobank participants without diabetes and not taking lipid-lowering medication. 90 metabolic biomarkers showed independent associations with T2D risk among 50,519 participants.

 Epistasis has recently emerged as one of the intrinsic mechanisms that could explain part of this missing heritability. We conducted epistasis analysis for genome-wide body mass index (BMI) associated SNPs in Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) and followed up top significant interacting SNPs for replication.

Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) has been successfully employed to understand the organisation of the human brain. The brain is parcellated into regions of interest (ROIs) and modelled as a graph where each ROI represents a node and association measures between ROI-specific blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) time series are edges.

A common G risk allele in the melatonin receptor 1B (MTNR1B, rs10830963) gene has been associated with altered melatonin signaling and secretion. Given that melatonin possesses anticancerogenic properties, we hypothesized that breast and prostate cancer risks vary by the genotype. A total of 216 702 participants from the UK Biobank without cancer at baseline were included.

Cohort studies report inconsistent associations between body mass index (BMI) and all-cause incident dementia. Evidence on fat distribution and body composition measures is scarce. Few studies estimated the association between early life adiposity and dementia risk.

Many risk factors have emerged for novel 2019 coronavirus disease (COVID-19) It is relatively unknown how these factors collectively predict infection risk, as well as risk for a severe infection. Among aged adults (69.3 +/- 8.6 years) in UK Biobank, data was downloaded for 4510 participants.

Study aimed to systematically examine the women-specific temporal pattern (trajectory) of the disease network. UK Biobank study, 502,650 participants entered the cohort from 2006 to 2010, and were followed up until 2019.

 gene × environment (G×E) research deploys a limited toolkit on the genetic side to study the gene-environment interplay. In this article, we develop a genetic summary measure better suited for G×E research: variance polygenic scores (vPGSs)

Whether driving and computer use are associated with the risk of dementia in older adults is an important research question. Participants of a longitudinal cohort study that included European middle- and old-aged adults at the baseline (2006-2010) who had not been diagnosed with dementia before 5 years after the baseline were followed up.

Several candidate genes have been proposed to explain variation in well-being. These candidate gene and candidate gene-by-environment interaction studies have been surrounded by controversy. In the present study, we review the existing candidate gene literature for well- Being. We find no support for any of the candidate genes.

Aberrant sleep parameters are associated with the risk of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) However, existing information is inconsistent among studies and involves reverse causation. We aimed to investigate the observational associations and causations between sleep traits and NAFLD.

We present the results of a GWAS of food liking conducted on 161,625 participants from the UK-Biobank. Liking was assessed over 139 specific foods using a 9-point scale. Genetic correlations coupled with structural equation modelling identified a multi-level hierarchical map of food-liking.

The role of fish oil in the prognosis of hypertensive patients is unknown. This study investigated the associations of. fish oil supplementation with the progression of cardiometabolic multimorbidity (CMM) and. mortality among patients with hypertension.

We assigned 329,908 UK Biobank participants into six subgroups based on a self-organizing map of 51 biochemical measures. The subgroup with the most favorable metabolic traits was chosen as the reference. Multimorbidity was enriched in metabolically favorable subgroups despite lower disease burden overall.

Lifestyle intervention is important for the treatment of liver diseases. A higher overall lifestyle score was associated with a significantly lower SLD risk (P trend) In European individuals, a healthy lifestyle is associated. with a lower risk of incident SLD.

UK Biobank study included 479,650 participants with data available for supplement use and without HF at baseline. In multivariable analysis, the HR of glucosamine users for HF was 0.87 (95% CI, 0.81 to 0.94). The inverse associations were stronger in males and participants with unfavorable lifestyle.

Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) could be potentially useful to construct polygenic risk scores (PRSs) for kidney disease. Increased albuminuria indicates underlying glomerular pathology and is associated with worse renal disease outcomes. Many SNPs are associated with UACR or renal injury, suggesting a role in kidney dysfunction.

A study was conducted from 53,363 healthy participants in the UK Biobank survey to determine predicted ASI. Stiffness index was applied on 49,452 hypertensives without CV diseases to discriminate determinants of positive stiffness index from negative index.

Study used a novel clustering algorithm to identify robust subtypes of type 2 diabetes. Five distinct T2D clusters were identified in the UK Biobank and validated in the All of Us cohort. With a median follow-up of 11.69 years, risks of incident CVD events varied considerably between the clusters.

Study examined associations of in utero tobacco smoke exposure, age of smoking initiation, and their interaction with genetic risk levels with cancer incidence in 393,081 participants from the UK Biobank. The relative risk of incident cancer increased with earlier smoking initiation.

Many complex diseases share common genetic determinants and are comorbid in a population. We hypothesized that the co-occurrences of diseases and their overlapping genetic etiology can be exploited to simultaneously improve multiple diseases' polygenic risk scores (PRS) This hypothesis was tested using a multi-task learning (MTL) approach based on an explainable neural network architecture.

White matter hyperintensities (WMHs) are a major risk factor for stroke and dementia. It has been debated how much risk is accounted for by conventional cardiovascular risk factors (CVRFs) Only 32% of the variance in WMH volume was explained by measures of CVRFs, sex, and age.

Uticaria is a skin disorder characterized by outbreaks of raised pruritic wheals. We found nine sequence variants at nine loci associating with urticaria. The variants are at genes participating in type 2 immune responses and/or mast cell biology.

Study included 114,289 cancer-free participants with at least two dietary assessments. The derived-DP was characterized by a higher intake of beer and cider, processed meat, high sugar beverages, red meat, and artificial sweetener. A higher obesity-related DP Z-score was linearly associated with an increased risk of overall cancer.

Long-term exposure to PM2.5 (per 5-&#956;g/m3 increase) was significantly associated with AST (0.596% increase, 95% CI, 0.414 to 0.778%) Significant modification effects by alcohol consumption were found (P-interaction)

Previous studies suggest that air pollution can increase the risk of incident chronic kidney disease (CKD) However, the association between end-stage kidney disease and co-exposure to relatively low-level air pollutants remains unclear. A prospective cohort was designed based on UK Biobank from 1 January 2010 to 12 November 2021.

Statins are widely used for cardiovascular disease prevention but their effects on cognition remain unclear. We used participants from the UK biobank aged 40-69 without neurological and psychiatric disorders. Statin use was associated with lower cognitive performance at baseline.

Previous studies have linked higher body mass index (BMI) to lower subjective well-being in adult European ancestry populations. However, our understanding of these relationships across different populations is limited. Here, we investigated the association between BMI and well being in people of (a) East Asian and (b) European ancestry.

 quantification of visceral adipose tissue (VAT) has become increasingly important in risk assessment for cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. Differences exist in the accuracy of various modalities, with a lack of up-to-date comparison with three-dimensional whole volume assessment. We evaluated the correlation of various commonly used modalities and techniques namely body impedance analysis (BIA), dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) as well as single slice CT.

Data were obtained from the UK Biobank, comprising 497,503 adults. At baseline, 70.5% of participants reported drinking &#8805;1 cups/d coffee. After adjusting for potential confounders, we identified a nonlinear J-shaped association between coffee consumption and HF risk.

Study looked at relationship of variety and duration of different sedentary behaviors with the risk of dementia. 173,829 older participants without prior dementia in the UK Biobank were enrolled. During a median follow-up of 12.4 years, 4965 participants developed new-onset dementia.

The World Health Organization proposed the concept of intrinsic capacity (IC) as central for healthy ageing. Little research has investigated the interaction and joint associations of IC with cardiovascular disease (CVD) incidence and CVD mortality in middle and older-aged adults.

The relevance of race and ethnicity to genetics and medicine has long been a matter of debate. Race and ethnicity can be used to stratify pharmacogenomic risk in the US and UK populations and should not be discounted when making treatment decisions.

Pancreatitis patients were identified through national hospital and mortality records across the United Kingdom. Genotyped data that included 35 SNPs were assessed for independent associations with SAP. Male sex and older age increased odds of developing SAP.

Circadian rhythms are crucial for regulating physiological and behavioral processes. Pineal hormone melatonin is often used to measure circadian amplitude but its collection is costly and time-consuming. Wearable activity data are promising alternative.

 Shape reconstruction from sparse point clouds/images is a challenging and relevant task required for a variety of applications in computer vision and medical image analysis. We propose a deep learning architecture, coined Mesh Reconstruction Network (MR-Net), which tackles this problem. MR-Net enables accurate 3D mesh reconstruction in real-time despite missing data.

Model-X knockoffs is a general procedure that can leverage any feature importance measure to produce a variable selection algorithm. This article introduces a derandomization method by aggregating the selection results across multiple runs of the knockoffs algorithm. When applied to the base procedure of Janson and Su, we prove that derandomized knockoffs controls both the per family error rate and the k family-wise error rate.

Diseases were identified using questionnaires, nurses' interviews, or inpatient data. Mortality register data were used to identify mortality up to January 2021. 37 diseases including cancers and heart diseases were associated with an increased risk of mortality independent of other diseases (hazard ratio ranged from 1.09 to 7.77)

With the increasing size and number of genome-wide association studies, individual single nucleotide polymorphisms are increasingly found to associate with multiple traits. Many different mechanisms could result in proposed genetic IVs for an exposure of interest being associated with multiple non-exposure traits, some of which could bias MR results. We highlight the pros and cons of relying on sensitivity analyses without considering particular pleiotropic paths.

Patients with established Parkinson's disease display differences in blood biomarkers of immune function. These may be useful biomarkers to predict PD and inform pathogenesis. We examined the relationship between incident PD and baseline leukocyte differential count in UK Biobank. Lower lymphocyte count was associated with increased risk of PD diagnosis.

Study population included 499,830 UK Biobank participants without schizophrenia and bipolar disorder at baseline. Type 1 and type 2 diabetes and depression were identified using self-reported diagnoses. Mortality was identified from death records using the primary cause of death.

UK Biobank participants (46.9% men, mean age 55 years) with data on early markers of CVD risk (n=12 706) were followed longitudinally (2014-2020; mean 8.4 years) Two DPs (DP1, DP2) were derived using reduced rank regression. DP1 was positively correlated with saturated fat, monounsaturated fat, and polyunsaturated fat. DP2 (characterized by higher butter and high-fat cheese, lower nuts and seeds intake) was associated with slightly higher odds of elevated CVB risk.

Job attainment is an important component of socioeconomic status (SES) There is a paucity of genomic research on an individual's job attainment. By incorporating O*NET occupational information into the UK Biobank database, we performed GWAS analyses of six major job attainment characteristics.

Little is known about the links between long-term exposure to air pollution and risk of incident microvascular disease (retinopathy, peripheral neuropathy, and chronic kidney disease) This study included 396 014 UK residents free of microv vascular disease and macrovascular diseases at baseline. Annual means of PM 2.5 , PM 2-10 , PM 10 , NO 2 , and NO  x   were assessed by land use regression models.

Study included 373,026 individuals of European ancestry without prevalent CHD/stroke from UK Biobank data. TV viewing and computer use were assessed through touch-screen questionnaires. Compared with &#8805;4h/day of TV viewing, the hazard ratio of CHD was 0.84. CHD hazards were higher for medium and high genetic risk.

Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is the most common genetic cardiovascular disorder. There is substantial interest in the use of real-world data, such as electronic health records, to better understand disease mechanisms and discover new treatment strategies. We identified two novel, non-sarcomeric genetic variants in KMT2C and PARD3B that were associated with HCM diagnosis.

Genetic fine-mapping revealed both shared and distinct causal variation between COA and AOA in the class I region. Both gene expression levels and amino acid variation contributed to risk. The HLA-DQA1*03:01 allele accounted entirely for the most significant association with AOA. A convergence of genomic, transcription, and protein coding evidence implicates the Hla-D QA2 and HLA DQA2 genes in AOA and the HLA C protein coding variation in COA.

Quantitative susceptibility mapping (QSM) is an emerging magnetic resonance imaging technique that measures tissue magnetic susceptibility. We present an open resource of QSM-based imaging measures of multiple brain structures in 35,273 individuals from the UK Biobank.

Parents pass on both their genes and environment to offspring, prompting debate about the relative importance of nature versus nurture in the inheritance of complex traits. Advances in molecular genetics now make it possible to quantify an individual's genetic predisposition to a trait via his or her 'polygenic score'

 venous thromboembolism (VTE) is associated with increased mortality. The combined effects of adopting multiple healthy lifestyles have not been firmly demonstrated. This study was to evaluate the association of combined healthy lifestyles and genetic risk factors with VTE.

No population-based cohort study investigated a potential inverse association between long-term low-dose acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) use and all-cause dementia. Strongest protective effect of ASA was observed in participants with coronary heart disease (CHD) in both cohorts.

This study was conducted in people with gout from the UK Biobank. Logistic regression was used to examine the association between self-reported physician-diagnosed hypertension, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia and ischaemic heart disease. High eGFR associated with urate raising allele at rs2231142. The SNP in ADH1B that protects from alcohol excess showed a negative association with IHD.

Moderate alcohol consumption is widespread but its impact on brain structure and function is contentious. Relationship between alcohol intake and structural and functional neuroimaging indices remain unclear. 25,378 UK Biobank participants underwent multi-modal MRI 9.6 +/- 1.1 years after study baseline. Alcohol use was self-reported at baseline (2006-10)

Enlargement of the aorta is an important risk factor for aortic aneurysm and dissection. We identified lead variants across 41 loci, including genes related to cardiovascular development. A polygenic score significantly predicted prevalent risk of thoracic aortesm and need for surgical intervention.

High consumption of dietary fibre was associated with a lower risk of IBD, Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) The findings support current recommendations to increase the intake of Dietary fibre.

UK Biobank cohort study participants provided a full week of accelerometer-based physical activity data. Physical activity concentrated within 1 to 2 days was associated with similarly lower risk of cardiovascular outcomes to more evenly distributed activity. Findings were consistent at the median threshold of 230.4 minutes or more of MVPA per week.

The iron overload disorder hemochromatosis is primarily caused by the homozygous  HFE  p.C282Y variant. The scale of excess related musculoskeletal morbidity is uncertain. A total of 451,143 European ancestry participants (40 to 70 years at baseline) were followed in hospital records (mean 11.5-years) Cox proportional hazards models estimated HFE and p.H63D associations with incident outcomes.

Mediterranean-style, Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) and plant-based diets were scored. Greatest ultra-processed food consumption was associated with a significant increase in AF risk.

Study looked at relationship between body fat distribution and risk of cardiometabolic and microvascular events among individuals with prediabetes or diabetes with normal body mass index (BMI) Participants with central obesity defined by WHR had 27%-54% higher risk of incident all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, myocardial infarction and stroke.

Low birth weight, being thinner and changing to have a thinner body size in childhood are associated with higher risks of developing multimorbidity and many chronic conditions in adulthood. Early monitoring and maintaining a normal body size could have life-course benefits for preventing chronic diseases.

Polyneuropathy was significantly associated with all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. Metabolic parameters HbA 1c , waist circumference, BMI and the inflammatory parameter C-reactive protein showed significant mediation effects. Adherence to a favorable lifestyle was associated with a lower risk of death.

Study included data from 43 930 participants of the large UK Biobank cohort. Using official ICD10 diagnosis, we selected 712 participants with migraine, 1 853 with depression and 23 942 healthy controls. We estimated mean volumetric difference between the groups using generalized linear regression models.

Data suggest that various dietary interventions slow kidney disease progression and improve clinical outcomes for those with chronic kidney disease (CKD) However, the association between plant protein intake and incident CKD has been uncertain. Using the UK Biobank Study data, we found that participants with a higher plantprotein intake had a lower risk of developing CKD.

Meat-free diets may be associated with a higher risk of hip fracture, but prospective evidence is limited. In the UK Biobank, occasional meat-eaters, pescatarians, and vegetarians were compared to regular meat- eaters. Among 413,914 women, 3503 hip fractures were observed. After adjustment for confounders, vegetarians (HR (95% CI): 1.50 (1.18, 1.91)) had a greater risk.

Evidence linking glucose metabolism status with brain macro- and microstructure is limited and inconsistent. This study enrolled 29 251 participants from the UK Biobank. Glucose metabolism status was classified into normal glucose metabolism (NGM), prediabetes, type 2 diabetes (T2D) with HbA1c.

Lipoproteins are well-established risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality. But conventional measurements failed to identify lipoprotein particle sizes. This study aimed to investigate associations of lipop protein subclasses categorized by particle sizes with risk of all-cause and CVD mortality in individuals with type 2 diabetes.

Low-to-moderate nut consumption was associated with a 17% lower risk of depression during a 5.3-year follow-up compared with no nut consumption. This protective association is enhanced in the absence of other known risk factors for depression.

A total of 35,550 participants (55.6% females) with a mean age 56.8 +/- 8.04 years were included in the study. Participants were stratified into 7 different body composition groups based on BMI and WC. Individuals in the Overweight/High WC, Mild obesity/ high WC and Severe obesity/high WC groups were associated with an increase in the retinal age gap, compared with those in the Normal Weight/Normal WC group.

Both unhealthy lifestyle factors and ambient air pollution have been closely linked with the risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) We retrieved 250,898 participants without AF at baseline from UK Biobank. Participants with moderate and high CVH showed a decreased risk of incident AF compared to those with low CVH.

Neuroticism is a major risk factor for neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease and related dementias. This study investigates whether neuroticism is associated with white matter hyperintensities.

Mood and other mental health status may be associated with the development of dementia. A comprehensive mood index that reflects the overall mood status and dementia risk is lacking. We examined the relationship between mood index, sleep duration and dementia in 429,761 participants.

A total of 166,377 UK Biobank participants without dementia at baseline were analyzed. Brain structural anatomy and tissue-specific volumes were measured using brain MRI. The incidence of all-cause dementia increased by 4.6% for each additional unit of DII. DII displayed a "J-shaped" non-linear association with Alzheimer's dementia.

Of 436,990 participants included in the study who were cancer-free at baseline, 21.6% (99,965) were multi-morbid (&#8805; 2 diseases) Over a median follow-up time of 10.9 [IQR 10.0-11.7] years, 9,019 prostate, 7,994 breast, 5,241 colorectal, and 3,591 lung cancers were diagnosed.

Study looked at data from 48,515 participants with prediabetes and 24,393 participants with diabetes from the UK Biobank. Annual pollution data were collected for fine particulate matter (PM 2.5), inhalable particulates (PM 10), nitrogen dioxide (NO 2 ), and nitrogen dioxides (NO x ) during 2006-2021. Reducing air pollution levels would significantly benefit this vulnerable population by reducing the incidence of mental disorders.

Study included 250,312 women aged 40-69 years between 2006 and 2010 from the UK Biobank cohort. We found no overall association between diabetes and BCa risk. However, there was a significantly increased risk of BCa in the short time window after T2D diagnosis.

Few investigations have been performed between tobacco smoking, alcohol, and arterial stiffness. 98 039 individuals of the UK Biobank cohort were included (45 457 men and 52 582 women) ASI levels were higher in men than in women (9.91 vs. 8.71 m/s)

Evidence concerning intakes of protein or sources of dairy protein and risks of colorectal, breast, and prostate cancers is inconclusive. Using a subsample of UK Biobank participants, we estimated intakes of total protein, protein from total dairy products, milk, and cheese, and dietary calcium in 114,217 participants. After a median of 9.4 years of follow-up, 1193 coloreCTal, 2024 female breast and 2422 prostate cancer cases were identified.

The UK Biobank is a national prospective cohort study that recruited 502,505 participants aged 40-69 years between 2006 and 2010. During a median follow-up of 8.9 years, 27,394 (6.3%) developed CVD. The frequency of depressive symptoms increased the risk of CVD according to low, moderate, high, and very high frequency.

The study retrieved data from 402,042 participants who were free of IPF at baseline in the UK Biobank. The annual mean concentration of ambient SO 2 was estimated for each participant based on their residential addresses. The results indicated that each 1 &#956;g/m 3 increase in ambient SO2 was associated with a hazard ratio (HR) (95% confidence interval [CI]) of 1.67.

Cognitive ability is a strong predictor of occupational achievement, quality of life and physical health. Little is known about how these factors combine and interact to explain variation in cognition. We modelled the relationship between common genetic variation, grey matter volume, early life adversity and education and cognitive ability in a UK Biobank sample of N = 5237 individuals.

Exclusive use of cars was associated with a relatively higher risk of CHD across all strata of genetic susceptibility. There was, in general, no strong evidence of interactions between genetic susceptibility and categories of overall, non-commuting and commuting transport.

We conducted a prospective analysis of 281,280 UK Biobank participants. Compared with workers who never/rarely worked night shifts, those who worked some night shifts or usual/permanent night shifts were 1.12 and 1.27 times more likely to develop NAFLD, respectively. Those with a longer duration, a higher frequency, more consecutive night shifts and a longer length per shift all showed higher risks of incidentNAFLD.

Grip strength is commonly used to identify weakness. We aimed to investigate if total and central adiposity are causally associated with grip strength. We explored whether associations varied by age, by examining age-stratified associations.

Diet is considered as one of the most important modifiable factors influencing human health. Efforts to identify foods or dietary patterns associated with health outcomes often suffer from biases, confounding, and reverse causation. Applying Mendelian randomization in this context may provide evidence to strengthen causality in nutrition research.

Multicollinearity can hinder inference in environmental health research. An alternative approach to address this problem is the use of principal component analysis. This combines and projects a group of correlated variables onto a new orthogonal space. The study was conducted in a cohort of 379,690 individuals in the UK.

We identified 53/c loci affecting hearing loss risk, including common coding variants in COL9A3 and TMPRSS3. Through exome sequencing of 108,415 cases and 329,581 controls, we observed rare coding associations with 11 Mendelian hearing loss genes. Our results suggest a shared etiology between Mendelians and common hearing loss in adults.

Study involved 493,774 participants from the UK Biobank. 4701 incident CM cases were documented among participants with none cardiometabolic disease at baseline. Compared with the fourth quartile (Q4), the multivariable adjusted HR (95% CI) value of Q1 of HGS for developing CM was 1.46 (1.34-1.60) HGS was also associated with the risk of all-cause mortality.

We identified genetic variants associated with lipid species putatively in the mechanistic pathway for coronary artery disease (CAD) We quantified 596 lipid species in serum from 4,492 individuals from the Busselton Health Study. We identified 134 lipid endophenotypes for CAD associated with 186 genomic loci.

In this paper, we propose a new approach for variable selection using a collection of Bayesian neural networks. Motivated by fine-mapping applications in statistical genetics, we refer to our framework as an "ensemble of single-effect neural networks"

The extent of shared and distinct neural mechanisms underlying major depressive disorder (MDD), anxiety, and stress-related disorders is still unclear. We compared the neural signatures of these disorders in 5,405 UK Biobank patients and 21,727 healthy controls. Found the greatest case-control differences in resting-state functional connectivity and cortical thickness in MDD.

Study looked at 462,619 participants in the UK Biobank cohort. Social isolation was associated with a 1.26-fold increased risk of dementia. 75% of this relationship was attributable to depressive symptoms.

Children with obesity typically have larger left ventricular heart dimensions during adulthood. Whether this is due to a persistent effect of adiposity extending into adulthood is challenging to disentangle due to confounding factors throughout the lifecourse. Strong evidence of a genetically predicted effect of childhood body size on all measures of adulthood heart structure was identified.

Hernias are characterized by protrusion of an organ or tissue through its surrounding cavity and often require surgical repair. In this study we identify 65,492 cases for five hernia types in the UK Biobank and perform genome-wide association study scans for these five types and two combined groups.

We conducted the largest genome-wide association study (GWAS) of circulating PUFA to date including a sample of 114,999 individuals. We used Mendelian randomization to investigate the involvement of PUFA on a wide range of CVDs in up to 1,153,768 individuals of European ancestry. Higher genetically predicted DHA (and total omega-3 fatty acids) concentration was related to higher risk of some cardiovascular endpoints, but these findings did not pass our criteria for multiple testing correction.

Many rare monogenic diseases are known to be caused by deleterious variants in thousands of genes. The same variants can also be found in people without the associated clinical phenotypes. We used UK Biobank to investigate phenotypes associated with rare protein-truncating and missense variants in 599 monoallelic DDG2P genes.

Growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF-15) levels have been revealed as a robust biomarker for metformin use. We conducted Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to explore the association between G DF-15 and gallstone disease. Four genetic variants associated with GDF- 15 levels were selected as instrumental variables from a genome-wide association meta-analysis including 21,758 individuals.

 Reduced glomerular filtration rate (GFR) can progress to kidney failure. Risk factors include genetics and diabetes mellitus (DM), but little is known about their interaction. We conducted genome-wide association meta-analyses for estimated GFR based on serum creatinine (eGFR), separately for individuals with or without DM.

Sleep, physical activity and sedentary behavior have been found to be associated with dementia risk. However, findings are inconsistent and their joint relationship remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate independent and joint associations of these three modifiable behaviors with dementia risks. A total of 431,924 participants without dementia from UK Biobank were included.

Study used data from 425 043 participants from the UK Biobank. An 80-variant LDL-C weighted genetic score was generated. We found that the genetically increased LDL- C effect on CVD events was sex specific. We also observed attenuated risks for ischemic heart disease and heart failure.

We used genotyping data and exome sequencing data of unrelated European individuals in the UK Biobank. We found that genetically proxied inhibition of the HMGCR gene mimicking long-term statin treatment associated with higher risk of cataract. Clinical trials with longer follow-up are needed to confirm these findings.

Recurrent copy-number variations (CNVs) at chromosome 16p11.2 are associated with neurodevelopmental diseases, skeletal system abnormalities, anemia, and genitourinary defects. Among the 40 protein-coding genes encompassed within the rearrangement, some have roles in leukocyte biology and immunodeficiency.

The UK Biobank is a major open access resource. We present a protocol to efficiently integrate the main dataset and record-level data files. We use an R package named "ukbpheno" to process the data.

Hormone-related cancers, including cancers of the breast, prostate, ovaries, uterine, and thyroid, globally contribute to the majority of cancer incidence. We show that considering hormone-sensitive cancers as a single disease in the UK Biobank reveals shared genetic aetiology.

Mendelian randomization (MR) has emerged as one of the foremost methods to efficiently interrogate diverse hypotheses using large-scale, observational data from biobanks. Most approaches implicitly assume that any putative causal effect is linear. We propose PolyMR, an MR-based method that provides a polynomial approximation of an (arbitrary) causal function between an exposure and an outcome.

 Depression and psychosis are often comorbid; they also have overlapping genetic and environmental risk factors, including trauma and area-level exposures. The present study aimed to advance understanding of this comorbridity via a network approach. It identified bridge nodes that connect clusters of lifetime depression and psychosis symptoms.

Arterial stiffness (AS), measured by arterial stiffness index (ASI), is a determinant in cardiovascular (CV) diseases. High serum uric acid (SUA) level is a known risk factor for CV disease. Authors investigated the relationship between SUA and ASI in the middle-age UK Biobank population study.

Physical inactivity increases the risk of chronic disease and mortality. The high prevalence of physical inactivity in the UK is likely to increase financial pressure on the National Health Service. We assessed the associations between objectively measured physical activity levels and future inpatient days and costs in UK Biobank study.

Associations of sex steroids and their binding proteins with body shape are unclear. waist and hip circumference are correlated strongly with body size. We defined body shape using "a body shape index" (ABSI) and hip index (HI) We examined associations in multivariable generalised linear models for the UK Biobank cohort.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia and the leading risk factor, after age, is possession of the apolipoprotein E epsilon 4 allele (APOE4) Approximately 50% of AD patients carry one or two copies of APOE4 but the mechanisms by which it confers risk are still unknown.

Genetic ancestry (GA) is more strongly associated with creatinine levels among healthy individuals than self-identified ethnicity. Black ethnicity shows a positive effect on participant serum creat inine levels. African ancestry has the highest association. GA (9.06%) explains significantly more of the variation in creatinin levels than ethnicity.

New therapies may help to prevent osteoporotic fractures other than increasing bone mineral density (BMD) Because fracture risk has an important genetic component, we aim to identify loci increasing fracture risk that do not decrease BMD. We found that only three loci affecting fracture risk exhibited genetic effects not mediated by BMD: SOST, CPED1-WNT16, and RSPO3.

Food-based dietary patterns (DPs) can help target specific combinations of foods that are associated with disease risk. Most high-income countries including the UK are far from reaching the dietary intakes which are recommended for good health.

Machine learning (ML) holds promise for precision psychiatry, but its predictive performance is unclear. We assessed whether ML provided added value over logistic regression for prediction of schizophrenia. We compared models built using polygenic risk scores (PRS) or clinical/demographic factors.

The intestinal hormone, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP), is involved in important physiological functions. While mutations leading to physiological changes can be identified in large-scale sequencing, no systematic investigation of GIP missense variants has been performed. Here, we identified 168 naturally occurring variants in the human GIP genes.

The inherited basis of fat distribution in the general population is not fully understood. We study up to 38,965 UK Biobank participants with MRI-derived visceral (VAT), abdominal subcutaneous (ASAT), and gluteofemoral (GFAT) adipose tissue volumes. We identify 250 independent common variants (39 newly-identified) associated with at least one trait.

Patients with germline pathogenic variants (GPV) in cancer predisposition genes are at increased risk of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) The genes most frequently found to harbor GPV in unselected PDAC cases are ATM, BRCA1 ,  BRCa2 ,  CDKN2A ,  CHEK2 , and  PALB2. GPV prevalence and gene-specific associations have not been extensively studied in the general population.

Exploring multimorbidity relationships among diseases is of great importance for understanding their shared mechanisms, precise diagnosis and treatment. Here, we present a graph convolutional network (GCN) model, named MorbidGCN, for multimor bidity prediction by integrating population phenotypes and disease network. With Morbid GCN, 9742 and 14 010 novel multimorbridities are identified in the UKB and HuDiNe data sets, respectively.

The Mediterranean diet is associated with better global cognition in older adults, slower cognitive decline and lower risk of dementia. Little is known about the relative contribution of each component of the Mediterranean diet to dementia risk. We aimed to examine whether Mediterranean diet components are associated with all-cause dementia risk in the UK BioBank cohort.

Neural network training and validation rely on the availability of large high-quality datasets. In many cases only incomplete datasets are available, particularly in health care applications. GapNet is an alternative deep-learning training approach that can use highly incomplete datasets without overfitting or introducing artefacts.

Neuroimaging techniques have been increasingly used to understand the neural biology of aging brains. We develop computationally efficient algorithms to estimate the parameters of new random effects. We further apply this method to the UK Biobank data to investigate the effects of tobacco smoking on the white matter integrity of the entire brain.

We analysed data from the Genomics England 100,000 Genomes Project and from a cohort of 1313 individuals with albinism aiming to gain insights into the genetic architecture of this archetypal rare disorder. We investigated the contribution of protein-coding and regulatory variants both rare and common.

Gene-environment interactions represent the modification of genetic effects by environmental exposures. These often induce differential phenotypic variance across genotypes. These variance-quantitative trait loci can be prioritized in a two-stage interaction detection strategy.

Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) is a disease with a variety of symptoms such as post-exertional malaise, fatigue, and pain. An increasing number of studies have implicated the involvement of the immune system in ME/C FS. Genetic association studies are being performed to identify potential risk variants.

Air pollutants exposure and venous thromboembolism (VTE) remains controversial. In this study, a total of 389,659 participants from the UK Biobank who were free of VTE in 2010 were included. During a median follow-up period of 8.25 years, 4986 VTEs were determined from hospital admission records.

Hematopoietic mosaic loss of Y chromosome (mLOY) is associated with increased risk of mortality and age-related diseases in men. Here, we show that male mice reconstituted with bone marrow cells lacking the Y chromosome display increased mortality. Cardiac macrophages lacking Y chromosome exhibited polarization toward a more fibrotic phenotype.

The more deprivation status the individuals were in, the higher daily smoking frequency or risk to be ever smokers. Income, education, health, living environment, and crime deprivation were positively associated with the risk of smoking behaviors. Employment deprivation was negatively correlated with smoking behaviors (all P)

The relevance between circulating metabolites and vascular events remains controversial. We sought to investigate the prospective associations of plasma metabolomics with risks of incident stroke, ischemic stroke (IS), hemorrhagic stroke (HS), and myocardial infarction (MI) Within the UK Biobank cohort, 249 circulating metabolites were measured in 90 438 participants without baseline vascular diseases.

Cerebellar volume is highly heritable and associated with neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorders. Understanding the genetic architecture of cerebellarVolume may improve our insight into these disorders. A genome-wide associations study was performed in a sample of 27,486 individuals from UK Biobank.

Long-term exposure to PM2.5 or NO2, even at relatively low levels, is associated with a higher risk of dementia. Air pollution may additively interact with the genetic susceptibility on dementia risk.

Modern GWAS studies use an enormous sample size and ultra-high density SNP genotypes. These conditions reduce the mapping resolution of marginal association tests. Multi-locus Bayesian Variable Selection (BVS) offers a one-stop solution for powerful mapping of risk variants.

UK Biobank ocular assessment included 68,550 participants aged 40-70 years. Those with diabetes had significantly more tortuous venules and wider arteriolar diameters compared with those without. Associations between venular tortuosity and cardiometabolic risk factors differed according to diabetes status.

Familial hemiplegic migraine (FHM) is a severe neurogenetic disorder. More than 80% of referred diagnostic cases of HM are negative for exonic mutations in these known FHM genes. Dysfunction in T-type calcium channels, including Cav3.3, has been implicated in a range of neurological conditions.

In recent work, Wang et al introduced the "Sum of Single Effects" (SuSiE) model. It provides a simple and efficient approach to fine-mapping genetic variants from individual-level data. Here we present new methods for fitting the SuSiE model to summary data. We also present a new refinement procedure that improves model fits in some data sets.

Analysis of whole-genome sequencing of 150,119 individuals from the UK Biobank. High-quality variants include 585,040,410 single-nucleotide polymorphisms. Depletion rank analysis shows that coding exons represent a small fraction of regions in the genome subject to strong sequence conservation.

Reducing Associations by Linking Genes and omics Results web app provides multi-layered omics information based on results from GWAS, transcriptomic, epigenomic and eQTL studies. With a focus on asthma datasets, the integrated omics results it contains facilitate the formulation of hypotheses related to airways disease-associated genes.

 Prediction models are commonly used to estimate risk for cardiovascular diseases. However, performance may vary substantially across relevant subgroups of the population. Here we investigated heterogeneity of accuracy and fairness metrics across a variety of subgroups for risk prediction.

Eosinophils play important roles in the release of cytokine mediators in response to inflammation. We have analyzed 200,000 whole-exome sequences from the UK Biobank cohort. A total of 220 genes in 55 distinct genomic regions were found to be associated with eosinophile count. Seven genes are driven by rare variants, independent of common variants.

The discrepancy between an individual's biological and chronological age of the brain ("brain age gap") can be assessed by applying machine learning techniques to Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) data. We examined the links between brain age gap and a broad range of cognitive, affective, socioeconomic, lifestyle, and physical health variables in up to 335 adults of the Berlin Aging Study II.

Mitochondrial dysfunction, which can be approximated by blood mitochondrial DNA copy number (mtDNA-CN), has been implicated in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes mellitus. We assessed the association between blood mt DNA-CN and incident type 2 Diabetes using multivariable-adjusted regression analyses and bi-directional MR. We also assessed the potentially causal relationship between blood. mtDNA- CN and type 2abetes and BMI using bi- directional two-sample MR.

The cell adhesion molecule 2 (CADM2) gene has appeared among the top associations in a wide range of genome-wide association studies (GWASs) This study aims to examine how widespread the role of CADM2 is in behavioural traits.

Genome-wide variance quantitative trait loci (vQTL) analysis complements genome-wide association study (GWAS) VQTLs have potential to identify novel variants associated with the trait and explain additional trait variance.

Alcohol's impact on telomere length, a proposed marker of biological aging, is unclear. We performed the largest observational study to date (in n = 245,354 UK Biobank participants) and compared findings with Mendelian randomization (MR) estimates. Higher genetically-predicted AUD (inverse variance-weighted (IVW) &#946; =. -0.06, 95% confidence interval (CI): - 0.10 to 0.02, p = 0.001) was associated with shorter telomeres.

Maternal obesity causes early metabolic disorder in the offspring. Interleukin-6 induced bronchial and microvascular smooth muscle cell (SMC) hyperproliferation and increased airway and pulmonary vascular resistance. Key anti-proliferative transcription factor FoxO1 was inactivated via nuclear exclusion.

Inter-individual variation in fat distribution is increasingly recognized as clinically important but is not routinely assessed in clinical practice. We report a deep learning model trained on an individual's body shape outline that enables accurate estimation of specific fat depots of interest.

We developed a novel interpretable biological heart age estimation model using cardiovascular magnetic resonance radiomics measures of ventricular shape and myocardial character. We included 29,996 UK Biobank participants without cardiovascular disease. We subtracted actual age from model estimated heart age to calculate a "heart age delta", which we considered as a measure of  heart aging.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) are proposed for use in clinical and research settings for risk stratification. There are limited investigations on how different PRS diverge from each other in risk prediction of individuals. We compared two recently published PRS for each of three conditions, breast cancer, hypertension and dementia.

Joint deafferentation after post-ankle sprain ligament healing can disrupt sensory input from the ankle and induce maladaptive neuroplasticity, especially in the cerebellum. Study aimed to determine whether the regional homogeneity of intrinsic cerebellar activity differs between patients with ankle instability and healthy controls.

 increasing evidence has shown adverse effects of loneliness on cardiometabolic health. The neuromodulator and hormone oxytocin has traditionally been linked with social cognition and behaviour. Recent implications of the Oxytocin system in energy metabolism suggests that oxytoc in may represent a mechanism bridging mental and somatic traits.

The APOE-&#949;4 allele is known to predispose to amyloid deposition and consequently is strongly associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk. We found no significant associations of SNPs in the APOE locus with AD in the sample of 5,390 individuals. However, we identified a novel genome-wide significant locus associated to AD, mapping to DAB1.

Metformin use has been associated with reduced incidence of dementia in diabetic individuals. However, the causality between the two in the general population is unclear. This study uses Mendelian randomisation to investigate the causal effect of metformin targets on Alzheimer's disease.

To date, little is known about the pleiotropic genetic variants among depression, cognition, and memory. The current research aimed to identify the potential pleiotsropic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)

UK Biobank participants reported their intake of commonly consumed foods. Serum IGF-I concentrations were measured in blood samples collected at recruitment. Compared to never consumers, participants who reported consuming oily fish or non-oily fish &#8805; 2 times/week had 1.25 nmol/L (95% confidence interval:1.19-1.31)

 Frailty, a prevalent clinical syndrome in aging adults, is characterized by poor health outcomes. While the relevance of the syndrome is gaining awareness, much remains unclear about its underlying biology. Further elucidation of the genetic determinants and possible underlying mechanisms may help improve patients' outcomes allowing healthy aging.

To date, no study has explored the extent to which genetic susceptibility modifies the effects of air pollutants on the risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) This study included 401,251 participants without AF at baseline from UK Biobank. Participants exposed to high air pollutants levels and high genetic risk had approximately 149.2% (PM 2.5 ) and 181.7% ( PM 10 ) higher risk of AF.

Comorbid conditions can be driven by underlying pleiotropic and causal mechanisms that can provide insights into shared molecular and biological processes contributing to disease risk. Endometriosis is a chronic condition affecting one in nine women of reproductive age.

Using data from the UK Biobank, we showed that pain spreads from proximal to distal sites. We developed a biopsychosocial model that predicted the number of coexisting pain sites. Key risk factors included sleeplessness, feeling 'fed-up', tiredness, stressful life events and a body mass index >30.

The risk of developing severe obesity for SAS individuals was almost twofold higher for individuals with high aPRS than for those with intermediate aPRs. Risk of developing coronary artery disease (CAD), obesity, and type 2 diabetes (T2D) in the South Asian (SAS) individuals in the UK Biobank.

Study analysed data of 459 840 participants from the UK Biobank. Those scored 2-3, 4 and 5-7 all had around the two-time risk of all-cause dementia. Diabetes duration and insulin use moderated the association.

Only 3% of participants who are homozygous for rs887829-T have a recorded diagnosis of Gilbert syndrome. Carriers of this genotype have modest increases in the odds of developing biliary pathology and pityriasis rosea. Evidence suggests that bilirubin has no likely causal role in protection from cardiovascular disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or other key healthcare outcomes.

The study looked at the association between periodontal disease and the development of inflammatory arthritides in the general population. The study included 489 125 participants from the UK Biobank without a previous history of RA, AS and PsA.

Happiness and eudaimonic well-being are negatively related to depressive symptoms. Genetic variants play a role in this association, reflected in substantial genetic correlations. Pure happiness and pure meaning became genetically unrelated to traits strongly associated with depressive symptoms, including loneliness, and psychiatric disorders. For other traits, including ADHD, educational attainment, and smoking, the genetic correlations changed substantially.

The higher score of psychological distress was associated with an increased risk of lung cancer. 16.8% (95% CI: 13.0%-20.6%) of the distress-lung cancer association was mediated by smoking. Compared with never smokers with no distress, participants with heavy smoking had the highest risk.

No CMR analysis tool exists to automatically analyse large (unstructured) clinical CMR datasets. We develop and validate a robust AI tool for start-to-end automatic quantification of cardiac function from SAX cine CMR in large clinical databases.

On average, educated people are healthier, wealthier and have higher life expectancy. Previous studies have used a range of natural experiments to provide causal evidence. Here we compare two natural experiments: a policy reform, raising the school leaving age in the UK in 1972; and Mendelian randomization.

We fine mapped the leukocyte antigen (HLA) region in 13,770 Parkinson's disease (PD) patients, 20,214 proxy-cases, and 490,861 controls of European origin. Four HLA types were associated with PD after correction for multiple comparisons. Haplotype analyses followed by amino acid analysis and conditional analyses suggested that the association is protective.

Early onset of menopause is associated with increased risk of hypertension. Whether this association is causal or due to residual confounding and/or reverse causation remains undetermined. We aimed to evaluate the observational and causal association between age at natural menopresa (ANM) and blood pressure traits.

35% to 78% of asthmatics do not respond to leukotriene inhibitors. European individuals with early-onset (&#8804;18y) carrying at least one copy of rs2660845 have increased odd of exacerbation under montelukast treatment. These findings support a precision medicine approach for the treatment of asthma.

A total of 28,919 participants from the UK Biobank study with available glycemic status and qualified retinal imaging data were included in the present analysis. Glycemic status included type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) disease status and glycemic indicators of plasma glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and glucose. Retinal age gap was defined as the difference between the retina-predicted age and chronological age.

Previous studies have suggested that vitamin D (VD) was associated with psychiatric diseases. Here, we examined associations of VD traits with depression and anxiety traits. Our study results suggested that VD was negatively associated with anxiety and depression.

It remains unknown whether a low-inflammatory diet could modify the chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and lung cancer risk related to smoking. An inflammatory diet index (IDI) was developed based on C-reactive protein levels and was a weighted sum of 34 food groups. Replacing each standard deviation unit (&#8776;1080.426 g day -1 ) of pro- inflammatory foods with anti-inflammatory foods was associated with a 30% lower COPD risk.

Premorbid data for total cholesterol, high-density and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglyceride, glycated haemoglobin A1c and creatinine were collected retrospectively. Data were fitted using linear mixed effects models with linear b-splines to identify inflection points. In specialist amyotrophic lateral sclerosis clinic cases, models indicated decreasing levels of total cholesterol prior to an inflection point in the years before symptom onset.

Proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs) are used to suppress gastric acid secretion in several gastrointestinal conditions. Long-term use may be associated with different adverse effects, including migraine. We analyzed the association between treatment with PPIs and migraine prevalence.

There is a lack of studies on the association between specific physical activity (PA) types and dementia. We examined the association of LTPA, OPA, and sedentary lifestyle with dementia risk and cognitive decline using the UK-Biobank study.

Vitamin D has been known to be associated with asthma, particularly in children. The evidence among adults is limited and inconclusive. This study aimed to investigate the association between serum, vitamin D concentrations, and the incidence of adult-onset asthma. It also investigated the modified effect caused by sleep patterns and genetic risks.

Ongoing increases in the size of human genotype and phenotype collections offer the promise of improved understanding of the genetics of complex diseases. Here we show that advances in phenotype prediction can be applied to improve the power of genome-wide association studies.

An elastic net-based Cox model (ML4H EN-COX ) trained and evaluated in 173,274 UK Biobank participants selected 51 predictors from 13,782 candidates. Beyond most traditional risk factors, the model selected a polygenic score, waist circumference, socioeconomic deprivation, and several hematologic indices.

We found that the genetic variation that supports longer life is significantly associated with the lower risk of COVID-19 infection and hospitalization. We find that lower B-cell CD19 levels are indicative of an increased risk and decreased life expectancy. Interventions that target these factors to reduce biological age may reduce the risk.

This two-sample Mendelian randomization study aimed to examine the potential causal association of telomere length (TL) with the risk of osteoarthritis (OA) The summary-level data for OA was derived from the United Kingdom Biobank cohort, including 50,508 individuals of European descent.

Pharmacogenomic studies have revealed associations between rs1967309 in the adenylyl cyclase type 9 ( ADCY9 ) gene and clinical responses to dalcetrapib. Here, we characterized selective signals at the locus associated with the pharmacogenomic response in human populations. We show that the region exhibits signatures of positive selection in several populations.

Little is known on the gender-specific effect and potential role of non-linear associations between metabolic syndrome (MetS) components and liver cancer risk. We evaluated these associations based on the UK Biobank cohort.

Vertigo is the leading symptom of vestibular disorders and a major risk factor for falls. In a genome-wide association study of vertigo, we uncovered an association with six common sequence variants. None of the six vertigo variants were associated with hearing loss and only one was associated with age-related hearing impairment.

Deep learning demonstrates great promise for automated analysis of CMR. However, existing limitations are holding back the introduction of deep learning tools in the clinical environment. This study aimed to develop a framework for automated detection and quality-controlled selection of standard cine sequences images.

Recovering the 3D motion of the heart from cine cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging enables the assessment of regional myocardial function. 3D cardiac motion estimation is challenging because the acquired cine CMR images are usually 2D slices which limit the accurate estimation of through-plane motion. We propose a novel multi-view motion estimation network (MulViMotion) which integrates 2D cine cMR images acquired in short-axis and long-axis planes. We extensively evaluate the proposed method on 2D C MR images from 580 subjects of the UK Biobank study.

C-reactive protein (CRP) is a routinely measured blood biomarker for inflammation. Elevated levels of circulating CRP are associated with response to infection, risk for a number of complex common diseases, and psychosocial stress. CRP serum levels are significantly associated with ethnicity in an age and sex adjusted model. BMI, smoking, and socioeconomic deprivation all have high relative effects on CRP.

Growth differentiation factor-15 (GDF15) is a stress response cytokine that is elevated in several cardiometabolic diseases and has attracted interest as a potential therapeutic target. We conducted a broad study into the phenotypic and genetic correlates of GDF15 concentration in up to 14,099 individuals. Assessment of 772 traits across 6610 participants in FINRISK identified associations with a range of phenotypes.

Lateralization is a fundamental characteristic of many behaviors and the organization of the brain. Atypical lateralization has been linked to various brain-related disorders such as autism and schizophrenia. Right-handedness is one of the most prominent markers of human behavioural lateralization, yet its neurobiological basis remains to be determined.

Aortic dimensions and distensibility are key risk factors for aortic aneurysms and dissections, as well as for other cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. We identify 102 loci (including 27 novel associations) tagging genes related to cardiovascular development, extracellular matrix production and smooth muscle cell contraction.

The aim of this study was to investigate the causal effects of T2DM liability and glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) levels on various cardiovascular disease outcomes. We selected 243 variants as genetic instruments for T2 DM liability and 536 variants for HbA 1c. Linear Mendelian randomization analyses were performed to estimate the associations of genetically-predicted T1D liability and Hb1c levels with 12 cardiovascular outcomes.

Using UK Biobank data, we analysed clinical phenotypic and genetic information in the largest dystonia cohort reported to date. Phenotypic patterns highlighted a predominance of psychiatric symptoms (anxiety and depression), excess pain and sleep disturbance. Cognitive impairment was limited to prospective memory and fluid intelligence.

Study investigates the association of common serum laboratory tests with the risk of incident dementia. Among 407,190 participants from the UK Biobank (median follow-up of 9.19 years), we investigated the linear and nonlinear effects of 30 laboratory measures. Dementia incidence was associated with low vitamin D concentration.

Drug target Mendelian randomization (MR) studies use DNA sequence variants in or near a gene encoding a drug target to anticipate the effect of drug action on the same target. Here we apply MR to prioritize drug targets for their causal relevance for coronary heart disease (CHD) The targets are further prioritized using independent replication, co-localization and protein expression profiles.

Autoimmune diseases share a general mechanism of auto-antigens harming tissues. Genetic as well as environmental factors contribute to their etiology at varying degrees. Associated genomic loci and variants have been identified in numerous genome-wide association studies.

Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging is a valuable modality in the diagnosis and characterization of cardiovascular diseases. However, in clinical practice, it is commonly acquired as a collection of separated and independent 2D image planes. This paper presents a completely automated pipeline for generating patient-specific 3D biventricular heart models from MR slices.

Respiratory infections contribute to significant morbidity and mortality. Genetic determinants of respiratory infections are understudied and remain poorly understood. We conducted a genome-wide association study in 19,459 hospitalised respiratory infection cases and 101,438 controls from UK Biobank. We followed-up well-imputed top signals in 50,912 cases and 150,442 controls.

Nomograms are important clinical tools applied widely in both developing and aging populations. They are generally constructed as normative models identifying cases as outliers to a distribution of healthy controls. Hippocampal volume (HV) is a key endophenotype for many brain disorders.

Long-term blood pressure variability (BPV) is a risk factor for cardiovascular diseases, dementia, and stroke. This study aims to explore its genetic factors and provide more evidence on the mechanisms and further pathological study of BPV.

Population biobanks recruit many individuals who can be affected by rare diseases. Major challenges include suboptimal phenotype mapping and limited statistical power. We identified 420 rare diseases affecting 23,575 individuals in the UK Biobank.

 kidney-specific gene  UMOD encodes for uromodulin, the most abundant protein excreted in normal urine. Rare large-effect variants in UMOD cause autosomal dominant tubulointerstitial kidney disease (ADTKD) Common low-impact variants strongly associate with kidney function and the risk of chronic kidney disease.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) has no proven causal and modifiable risk factors, or effective interventions. We report a phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) of genetic liability for AD in 334,968 participants of the UK Biobank study, stratified by age. We also examined the effects of AD genetic liability on previously implicated risk factors.

Interleukin 6 (IL-6) signaling is being investigated as a therapeutic target for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (CVD) Changes in circulating high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) are used as a marker of IL-6 signaling. It is not known whether there is effect heterogeneity in relation to baseline hsCRP levels or other cardiovascular risk factors.

Study used data from RNA-sequencing experiments and whole-body MRI scans of 200 participants in the EPIC-Potsdam cohort. The analysis identified 625 genes associated with adiposity, of which 531 encode a known protein and 487 are novel candidate genes for obesity.

We used data from UK biobank (N = 342,846) to evaluate joint effect of breastfeeding and maternal smoke during pregnancy (MSDP) on seven adult offspring mental health outcomes. Sex, age, 10 principle components of population structure, smoking, alcohol use, and Townsend deprivation index were examined as covariates. At MSDP grouping level, coefficients (odds ratio [OR]) for association of breastfed as a baby with self-reported anxiety (category variable) were 0.87 (95%CI, (0.82-0.93), P = 1.74 × 10-5) in the MSDP group.

Recent studies are questioning the role of common candidate genes in the development of depressive disorders. We hypothesize that 5-HTTLPR exerts its effect on depressive disorders in interaction with other genetic variants. We identified a region in the DPF1 gene that displayed a genome-wide significant (p = 3.31 × 10 -7 ) interaction effect with the biallelic version of 5- HTTLPR on lifetime depression.

Metabolomic data of 110,655 people in the UK Biobank study were measured with nuclear magnetic resonance technique. A total of 38 metabolites, including lipids and lipoproteins, ketone bodies, glycolysis-related metabolites, and amino acids, were found to be significantly associated with incident dementia. Adding selected metabolites (n=24) to the conventional dementia risk prediction model significantly improved the prediction for incident dementia and reclassification ability.

We tested the hypothesis that individuals with high ELPRS have a low prevalence of MetS. Participants were from five cohorts of middle-aged to older adults. MetS prevalence (22-30%) was higher in the older cohorts.

The 2021 European Society of Cardiology (ESC) guideline on cardiovascular disease (CVD) prevention categorizes moderate and severe chronic kidney disease as high and very-high CVD risk status. We developed and validated an 'Add-on' to incorporate CKD measures into these algorithms, using a validated approach.

High general cognitive ability (GCA) is associated with lower risk of neurodegenerative disorders. neural mechanisms are unknown. GCA could be associated with more cortical tissue, from young age, or less cortical atrophy in adulthood.

There is limited evidence exploring the relationship between diet and the risk of COVID-19. This study aimed to assess the associations between consumption of ultra-processed foods (UPF) and risk of infection. 41,012 participants from the UK Biobank study with at least 2 of up to 5 times 24-h dietary assessments were included.

Brown and beige adipose tissue are protective against metabolic diseases. PR domain-containing 16 (PRDM16) is an attractive target for improving metabolic health. We identify CUL2-APPBP2 as the ubiquitin E3 ligase that determines PRDM16 protein stability.

The modern sedentary lifestyle is negatively influencing human health. Current guidelines recommend at least 150 min of moderate activity per week. While accelerometers are the most common tools to measure activity, current activity classification methods require calibration studies.

The association between metabolic obesity phenotypes and incident lung cancer (LC) remains unclear. During a median follow-up of 9.1 years, 3654 incident LC patients were confirmed among 450,482 individuals. MHO and MHOW individuals had a 24% and 18% lower risk of developing LC, respectively.

Study examined associations between sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs) and the incidence of CMM in patients with a single cardiometabolic disease. Consumption of SSBs and ASBs was associated with a higher risk of the disease. In contrast, intake of pure fruit/vegetable juices was inversely associated with the risk of C MM.

Public greenspace was strongly associated with lower mortality risks. The protective associations were especially pronounced among those with lower individual-level socioeconomic status or living in places with area-level deprivation. Exploratory mediation analysis detected benefits in pathways through reducing air pollution, relieving social isolation and depression.

Prostate cancer is highly heritable, with >250 common variants associated in genome-wide association studies. It commonly presents with non-specific lower urinary tract symptoms that are frequently associated with benign conditions.

The association between coronary artery disease (CAD) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) contributes to the high morbidity and mortality observed for these conditions. To understand the dynamics underlying PTSD-CAD comorbidity, we investigated large-scale genome-wide association statistics. We observed a genetic correlation of CAD with PTSD case-control and quantitative outcomes.

Phenome-wide association studies identified numerous loci associated with traits and diseases. To help interpret these associations, we constructed a network map of colocalized genes and phenotypes. The majority of links were observed in a single tissue.

Schizophrenia is a highly heritable psychiatric disorder characterized by widespread functional and structural brain abnormalities. Previous association studies between MRI and polygenic risk were mostly ROI-based single modality analyses. We identified a PRS-associated brain pattern with smaller gray matter volume and decreased functional activation in frontotemporal cortex.

Gene-environment correlations affect associations between genetic variants and complex traits in genome-wide association studies (GWASs) Controlling for geographic regions significantly decreased the heritability for socioeconomic status (SES)-related traits. For most traits, controlling for regions significantly reduced genetic correlations with educational attainment and income.

Sedentary behavior (SB) is associated with cardiometabolic disease and mortality, but its association with dementia is currently unclear. This study investigates whether SB is linked with incident dementia regardless of engagement in physical activity (PA) A total of 146,651 participants from the UK Biobank who were 60 years or older and did not have a diagnosis of dementia were included.

We use genetics to assess a latent, broad non-cognitive skills dimension. On average across cohorts and designs, indirect genetic effects explain 36-40% of population polygenic score associations. We identify potential causes of higher sibling- and trio-based estimates including population stratification and assortative mating.

Whether a genetic predisposition to psychiatric disorders is associated with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is unknown. Our analytic sample consisted of 287,123 white British participants in UK Biobank who were alive on 31 January 2020. We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) analysis for each psychiatric disorder.

Natural killer (NK) cells represent a critical component of the innate immune system's response against cancer and viral infections. To distinguish healthy host cells from infected or tumor cells, killer immunoglobulin receptors (KIR) on NK cells bind and recognize Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) complexes. Just like the HLAs they bind, KIR receptors exhibit high allelic diversity in the human population. Here we provide a method to identify KIR allele variants from whole exome sequencing data.

An elevated risk of CVD was constantly observed among cancer patients, compared to their matched unexposed individuals. Such excess risk was most pronounced (hazard ratio [HR] = 5.28, 95% confidence interval [CI] 4.90-5.69) within 3 months after a cancer diagnosis.

Study was performed on a subset of participants from the UK Biobank between 2006 and 2010. Exposure to air pollutants, especially PM 2.5 and PM 10, was positively associated with LBW. A negative correlation was observed between the BW and PM2.5.

Coeliac disease (CeD) is characterized by gliadin-induced intestinal inflammation appearing in genetically susceptible individuals, such as HLA-DQ2.5 carriers. CeD has been associated with increased morbidity and mortality, but the causes are unknown. We compared the overall and cause-specific mortality and morbidity of 3,001 patients with CeD, 2,020 with CD and 4,399 with UC.

Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a common complication of pregnancy that adversely affects maternal and offspring health. Risk factors, such as BMI and age, have been associated with increased risks of gestational diabetes. Here we develop a polygenic risk score for GDM.

Myelofibrosis is a rare myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN) with high risk for progression to acute myeloid leukemia. We identify 6 germline susceptibility loci, 4 of which overlap with previously identified MPN loci. We also describe recurrent 9p24.1 large mCAs that selectively retained JAK2V617F mutations.

The association between body mass index (BMI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains controversial. Genetic and environmental factors are now considered contributors to AD risk. Little is known about the potential interaction between genetic risk and BMI onAD risk.

Mendelian randomization (MR) and multivariable regression was used to examine nonlinear effects of sleep duration on stillbirth, miscarriage, gestational diabetes, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, perinatal depression, preterm birth and low/high offspring birthweight. Shorter and longer duration increased stillbirth and low offspring birth weight; shorter duration increased perinata depression.

The evidence of relationship between dietary intake of folate, vitamin B6 and vitamin B12 and cardiovascular diseases (CVD) in UK populations is limited. We aimed to analyze the association of dietary intake. with CVD events [stroke, myocardial infarction (MI)] and CVD mortality.

Immune system dysregulation plays a vital role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. The associations of immune-mediated diseases with incident dementia are unclear and need to be clarified in prospective studies with a large population and long follow-up.

Genome-wide association studies do not always replicate well across populations, limiting the generalizability of polygenic risk scores. Despite higher incidence and mortality rates of prostate cancer in men of African descent, much of what is known about cancer genetics comes from populations of European descent.

UK Biobank is a large volunteer cohort (over 500,000 participants recruited aged 40-69) We compared participants with and without a history of infections for changes in cognitive function during follow-up. No evidence of an association was found between infection site, setting or frequency and cognitive decline except for small associations on the visual memory test.

The direction of the association between discretionary screen time (DST) and sleep in the adult population is largely unknown. We examined the bidirectional associations of DST and sleep patterns in a longitudinal sample of adults in the general population. A high DST at baseline is associated with poor sleep over a nearly 7 year follow-up period.

Comorbidity in heart diseases, including cardiac dysfunction (CD) and cognitive impairment, such as Alzheimer's disease and dementia (AD/D) might be due to a pleiotropic effect of genetic variants shared between CD and AD/D. Validation of disease-disease associations through health care records and genomic evidence can determine whether health conditions share risk factors.

Genome-wide survival association analysis can identify variants associated with ages of onset, disease progression and lifespan. We propose an efficient and accurate frailty model approach for genome-wide association analysis of censored time-to-event (TTE) phenotypes.

We analyzed 420,964 cancer-free participants from UK Biobank cohort. Observational analyses showed higher CRP concentration was associated with increased risk of overall cancer. No association were observed for genetically-predicted CRP and cancer risks.

Copy number variation (CNV) is a form of rare genetic variation that has been implicated in the etiology of psychiatric disorders. No large-scale investigation of CNV in PTSD has been performed. The 15q11.2 BP1-BP2 microdeletion region was significantly associated with PTSD. No individual significant genes interrupted by CNV were identified.

Several biobanks, including UK Biobank (UKBB), are generating large-scale sequencing data. An existing method, SAIGE-GENE, performs well when testing variants with minor allele frequency (MAF &#8804; 1%) But inflation is observed in variance component set-based tests when restricting to variants with MAF &# 8804; 0.1%.

Machine learning was used to develop a novel dementia prediction model by leveraging a rich-phenotypic variable space of 366 features. 425,159 non-demented participants were enrolled from 22 recruitment centres across the UK between March 1, 2006 and October 31, 2010. The model can achieve high discriminative accuracy in dementia and even better in AD.

Grip strength and walking pace have been linked to cognitive dysfunction. A 5 kg increment of absolute grip strength was associated with lower risks of all-cause dementia. A slow walking pace demonstrated consistent associations with increased risks.

Research suggests that diet influences cognitive function and the risk for neurodegenerative disease. The present study aimed to determine whether a recently developed diet score was associated with fluid intelligence. It also investigated whether associations were modified by individual genetic disposition.

 mitochondrial DNA copy number (mtDNA-CN) reflects mitochondrial function and has been associated with various aging-related diseases. We examined 415,422 exomes of self-reported White ancestry individuals from the UK Biobank. A survey across nine variant sets tested enrichment of putatively causal variants and identified 14 genes at experiment-wide significance.

BLM-s (BCL-2-like molecule, small transcript isoform) mediates apoptosis of postmitotic immature neurons during embryonic cortical development. Global depletion of Blm-s is associated with depression- and anxiety-related behaviors in adult mutant mice with intact learning and memory capacity.

There is limited understanding of how genetic factors contributed to altered neuroanatomy during human evolution. Here, we analyze neuroimaging and genetic data from up to 30,000 people in the UK Biobank. We show that previously reported signals of recent polygenic selection for cortical anatomy are not replicable in a more ancestrally homogeneous sample.

Being part of social groups constitutes a backbone for communal life and confers many benefits for the physical and mental health. We used structural and functional analyses to explore how social participation is reflected in the human brain.

PCSK9 inhibitors might lower lipoprotein(a), but whether this effect contributes to reductions in cardiovascular risk remains unknown. We aimed to assess whether genetically proxied PCSK9 inhibition influences lipop protein(a) and whether any such effect could mediate its effects on coronary artery disease (CAD) and ischemic stroke (IS)

Hemoglobin (Hb) concentration in the blood reflects a major functional iron (i.e., heme iron) in the body. Hb may serve as a surrogate of the nutritional status of iron. Iron overnutrition has been implicated with a higher risk of developing metabolic and cardiovascular diseases.

The impact of different coffee preparations on cardiovascular outcomes and survival is largely unknown. The aim of this study was to evaluate associations between coffee subtypes on incident outcomes. Decaffeinated, ground, and instant coffee, particularly at 2-3 cups/day, were associated with significant reductions in incident CVD and mortality.

Cardiometabolic multimorbidity (CMM) has risen as a global issue of public health. This study aimed to estimate the association between use of fish oil and mortality among patients with CMM. Use of fishoil was associated with a 17% lower risk of all-cause mortality.

Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) may differentially affect specific molecular pathways and processes in the pathogenesis of coronary artery disease (CAD) We calculated pathway-specific polygenic risk scores for CAD based on 6.6 million common variants evaluated in the CARDIoGRAMplusC4D genome-wide association study.

Evidence is limited regarding the associations between vitamin D status and microvascular complications in individuals with type 2 diabetes (T2D) Vitamin D deficiency or insufficiency is particularly common. In this study we aimed to investigate the associations of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] and vitamin D receptor (VDR) polymorphisms with risk of diabetic microv vascular complications.

Ambient air pollution has been widely linked with morbidity and mortality of stroke. We investigated the effects of ambient air pollution on progression trajectory from healthy status to incident stroke, poststroke cardiovascular diseases, and subsequent death.

The combined effect of coffee and tea consumption on asthma has rarely been studied. We examined associations between the self-reported intake of tea and coffee and the risk of incident asthma. Cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate the associations between coffee/tea consumption and incident adult-onset asthma.

The cardioprotective diet was reported to be associated with several chronic cardiometabolic diseases through an anti-inflammation effect. However, the association between the diet and the risk of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) was unclear and deserved to be further explored. We calculated the cardiop rotective diet score based on the consumptions of seven common food groups using validated food frequency questionnaire data in the UK Biobank.

Childhood-onset asthma (COA) has become a major and growing problem worldwide. Understanding the influence of early-life experiences such as breastfeeding on COA is of great importance for early prevention. We investigated the impact of breastfeeding on asthma in children under 12 years of age in the UK Biobank cohort. In the full cohort, it was identified that breastfeeding had a protective effect onCOA.

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain could be a key diagnostic and research tool for understanding the neuropsychiatric complications of COVID-19. For maximum impact, multi-modal MRI protocols will be needed to measure the effects of SARS-CoV-2 infection on the brain by diverse potentially pathogenic mechanisms. Here we describe the development of such a protocol, based upon the UK Biobank, and its validation with a travelling heads study.

The association between habitual glucosamine use and incident gout has not been examined in previous studies. A total of 436,594 participants (55.4% female) without prior gout at baseline who completed a questionnaire on supplementation use were enrolled. Incident gout was recorded from self-report, death register, primary care, and hospital admission data.

Study looked at macular retinal nerve fibre layer (mRNFL) and ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer (GC-IPL) thicknesses. Results suggest ethnic differences in layer thickness are likely driven by differences in total retinal thickness.

Urban agriculture has been shown to contribute to healthy lifestyle behaviors, such as increased fruit and vegetable intake and greater exposure to greenspaces. There is plenty of evidence linking these lifestyle behaviors to better health and wellbeing. Most evidence relates to assessing one behavior at a time. This research aims to examine the association of the interactions between various lifestyle behaviors and exposures related to urban agriculture.

Large data sets may contain associations that are statistically significant and yet misleading. This paper develops a method based on model-X knockoffs to find conditional associations. The effectiveness of this approach is demonstrated by simulations and applications to the UK Biobank data.

CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 enzymes are essential in the metabolism of antidepressants and antipsychotics. Genetic variation in these genes may increase risk of adverse drug reactions.

Predicting high-risk patients who require active intervention is challenging, especially in people with preserved kidney function. A predictive risk score for CKD (Reti-CKD score) was derived from a deep learning algorithm using retinal photographs.

The study included 20,047 study participants with T2D and complete data on spirometry at recruitment from the UK Biobank cohort. 4,521 patients showed comorbid PRISm at baseline. Over a median follow-up of 11.52 to 11.87 years, patients with T1D with PRism showed higher risks.

Examine the association of physical activity (PA) with glaucoma and related traits. To assess whether genetic predisposition to glau coma modified these associations. To probe causal relationships using Mendelian randomization (MR)

Trans-ethnic genome-wide association studies have revealed that many loci identified in European populations can be reproducible in non-European populations. How to leverage such shared information more efficiently in association analysis is less investigated for traits in underrepresented populations. We propose a statistical framework, trans-ethnic genetic risk score informed gene-based association mixed model (GAMM)

The benefit of using individual risk prediction tools to identify high-risk individuals for breast cancer (BC) screening is uncertain, despite the personalized approach of risk-based screening. Risk predictors assessed include the Gail model, BC family history, BC polygenic risk score (PRS), and presence of loss-of-function variants in BC predisposition genes.

The association between cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk and socio-economic status (SES) remains poorly studied. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between SES and estimated 10-year atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk among the general UK Biobank population. The findings from this study showed that men had higher estimated 10 year risk than women.

Ultra-processed food (UPF) intake has been associated with multiple health outcomes. Data on the association between UPF intake and venous thromboembolism (VTE) risk are lacking. We conducted a prospective cohort study to examine the association.

A decade ago, we proposed an index of physiological dysregulation based on Mahalanobis distance. We assessed pairwise correlations among systems, difference with age, prediction of mortality and age-related diseases. Different physiological systems showed distinct dysregulation processes.

Automated image analytics to compute quantitative imaging biomarkers of cardiac function are desperately needed. A hybrid and robust algorithm is proposed to improve the accuracy of automatic left and right ventricle segmentation. The proposed architecture outperformed the state-of-the-art for cardiac MRI segmentation from UK Biobank.

The Li and Stephens (LS) hidden Markov model (HMM) models the process of reconstructing a haplotype as a mosaic copy of haplotypes in a reference panel. For small panels, the probabilistic parameterization of LS enables modeling the uncertainties of such mosaics. LS becomes inefficient when sample size is large, because of its linear time complexity.

Study looked at hypertension-related cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) phenotypes in the UK Biobank. Hypertension was associated with concentric left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy, poorer LV function, larger left atrial (LA) volumes, lower LA ejection fraction, and lower aortic distensibility. Increasing time since diagnosis of hypertension linked to adverse remodelling.

Research on the effect of oral contraceptive (OC) use on the risk of depression shows inconsistent findings, especially in adult OC users. One possible reason for this inconsistency is the omission of women who discontinue OCs due to adverse mood effects, leading to healthy user bias. To address this issue, we aim to estimate the risk. of depression that is associated with the initiation of OCs as well as the effect. of OC use on lifetime risk of. depression.

Previous studies identified a number of diseases were associated with 2019 coronavirus disease (COVID-19) However, the associations between these diseases related viral infections and CO VID-19 remains unknown now. In this study, we utilized single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) related to COVID- 19 from genome-wide association study.

Asthma, type 2 diabetes (T2D), and anthropometric measures are correlated complex traits that all have a major genetic component. We found several genome-wide significant variants in and around the JAZF1 gene that are associated with asthma, T2D, or height. We also observed an association in this region with WC when adjusted for BMI.

Metabolomics allowed for leveraging the future of diagnosis and management of 'healthily obese' and 'unhealthily lean' individuals. The groups carrying obesity-related metabolites were at higher risk of mortality and morbidity.

Study of individual pairs of genes to complex traits has been challenging. Findings from model systems do not always translate to humans. Study identifies distinct gene pairs that modulate plasma and cellular lipid levels primarily via AEs.

Glycemia has been found as one important risk factor of depression. The biological mechanism underlying this relationship remained largely unknown. This analysis was derived from a cohort of 33,151 participants in the UK Biobank who provided brain magnetic resonance imaging data.

Pancreatic cancer has the poorest 5-year survival rate of any major solid tumor. Population screening is impractical because pancreatic cancer is rare with a lifetime risk of 1.7%. accurate risk stratification could enable health care providers to focus early detection strategies to at-risk individuals.

Previous research suggested an association between air pollution and shortened telomere length (TL), a biomarker of oxidative stress and inflammation. To comprehensively evaluate the association, we studied 471,808 participants from UK Biobank. Among participants with lower household income, lower educational attainment, and higher BMI, a stronger association was found.

Poor oral health is associated with a higher risk of incident dementia. Dentures may predict accelerated cognitive decline and are associated with regional cortical surface area changes. Improvement of oral health care could be beneficial for the prevention of dementia.

Beverage consumption was found to be associated with cardiovascular disease and mortality in the general population. However, it is unclear whether this association still exists in individuals with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) To investigate, we included 1981 participants with IBD in the UK Biobank. Outcomes of interest were overall cardiovascular Disease and all-cause mortality.

Using structural magnetic resonance imaging from the UK Biobank (n = 33,293), we examined the relationships between smoking status, dosage, and abstinence with total and 166 regional brain gray matter volumes (GMV) Smoking was associated with lower total and regional GMV, with the extent depending on the frequency of smoking and on whether smoking had ceased. The smaller GMV in smokers was most evident in the thalamus.

Thinness and anorexia nervosa are both characterised by persistent low weight. Both conditions are heritable and share genomics with BMI, but are not genetically correlated with each other. Based on their pattern of genetic associations with other traits, we explored differences between thinness andAnorexia Nervosa on a genomic level.

Cross-sectional study included cancer survivors (n = 2415) from the UK Biobank. Eighteen percent of participants were malnourished, 5% had low muscle mass and 6.5% had sarcopenia. Three dietary patterns were identified: 'high oily fish and nuts', 'low oily fish' and 'meat and dairy'

The influence of genetic factors on survival following a diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains unclear. To assess whether genetic polymorphisms influencing the susceptibility to develop HCC are also associated with HCC prognosis. Five HCC susceptibility loci were investigated: rs738409 (PNPLA3), rs58542926 (TM6SF2), rs72613567 (HSD17B13) and rs2242652 (TERT)

Polygenic risk scores may improve VTE prediction but have not yet been evaluated in patients with cancer. Guidelines recommend thromboprophylaxis for patients at high risk of venous thromboembolism.

A prospective cohort study included 21 193 individuals with CHD from the UK Biobank. Sleep 7-8 h/day, never/rarely insomnia, and no frequent daytime sleepiness were each significantly associated with a 12-22% lower risk of heart failure.

The literature has reported the potential involvement of inflammation in cognitive performance as well as Alzheimer's Disease, but not consistently. This study was designed to investigate the relationship between a systematic inflammatory biomarker measure, concurrent and later cognitive performance, and future dementia risk.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and alcoholic liver disease are among the most common liver diseases worldwide. It is unclear whether Omega-3 supplementation can prevent the development of liver disease, particularly in individuals at an increased (genetic) risk. In this UK Biobank cohort study, we established a multivariate cox proportional hazards model.

We build polygenic scores and examine performance as a function of training set size, genetic ancestral background, and training method. We show that predictor performance is most strongly dependent on size of training data, with smaller gains from algorithmic improvements. We find that LASSO generally performs as well as the best methods.

Drugs targeting genes linked to disease via evidence from human genetics have increased odds of approval. Approaches to prioritize such genes include genome-wide association studies (GWASs), rare variant burden tests in exome sequencing studies (Exome), or integration of a GWAS with expression/protein quantitative trait loci (eQTL/pQTL-GWAS) We compare gene-prioritization approaches on 30 clinically relevant traits and benchmark their ability to recover drug targets.

The human genome contains hundreds of thousands of regions harboring copy-number variants (CNV) Only larger CNVs have been ascertainable from SNP-array data generated by large biobanks. We developed a computational approach leveraging haplotype sharing in biobank cohorts to more sensitively detect CNVs.

Cardiometabolic multimorbidity (CMM) is becoming increasingly common in patients with hypertension. It is well established that healthy lifestyle plays a key role in the prevention of hypertension. However, the association between combined lifestyle factors and CMM is uncertain.

Kidney function is usually estimated from serum creatinine level. An alternative glomerular filtration marker (cystatin C level) associates more closely with future risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and mortality.

Higher urate levels are associated with higher systolic blood pressure (SBP) in adults, and in pregnancy with lower offspring birthweight. Mendelian randomization analyses suggest a causal effect of higher urate on higher SBP. If urate reduces birthweight, it might confound the effect of SBP on birth weight.

A total of 422,955 subjects who did not have osteoporosis at baseline in the UK Biobank were included from 2006 to 2010. After confounder adjustment, the results showed a remarkable increase in the risk of osteop orosis with each 10 unit increase in exposure to air pollution. Exposure to PM 2.5 , NO 2  and NOx was associated with an increase in osteopOrosis risk.

Alcohol drinking and obesity are associated with an increased risk of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) Genetic variants, such as I148M in the patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 3 (PNPLA3) gene, may play an important role in modulating cirrhotic risk. This prospective cohort study analyzed 414 209 participants enrolled in the UK Biobank study from March 2006 to December 2010.

In the UK Biobank Study cohort, 114 583 volunteers were included at baseline from March to June 2006 to July 2010. Habitual distance visual acuity was examined using the logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution. Depression was identified based on Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ) or through an interview-based psychiatric diagnosis. Subgroup participants completed multimodal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain and PHQ evaluation during the imaging visit after 2014.

Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness. Current medications work by lowering intraocular pressure (IOP) Most treatments do not directly target the pathological changes leading to increased IOP.

Blood leukocyte counts are easily accessible markers of immune function. Their association with the risk of AD is unknown. Study included 101 582 participants with a median age of 58 years. Of these, 1588 individuals developed AD.

Physical activity is correlated with, and effectively treats various forms of psychopathology. However, whether biological correlates of physical activity and psychopathology are shared remains unclear. Here, we examined the extent to which the neural and genetic architecture ofphysical activity and mental health are shared.

Metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) is recently recognized as a condition featured with metabolic dysfunctions in liver. It has been supposed that MAFLD might contribute to the development of IBD, but evidence from prospective cohort studies is lacking and inconclusive.

Lipid metabolism plays a central role in the development of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Sex differences in the levels of 141 lipid species were observed. 121 lipid species showed significant age-sex interactions. Most of the cholesteryl esters, ceramides, lysophospholipids, and glycerides were higher in 45- to 50-year-old men.

The aim of this study is to explore the relationship between birth weight and adult bone mass. We found that higher birth weight could increase the adult bone area (lumbar spine)

The current state-of-the-art imputation quality metric, denoted as standard Rsq, is poorly calibrated for lower-frequency variants. We propose MagicalRsq, a machine-learning-based method that integrates variant-level imputation and population genetics statistics.

 AI-enabled retinal vessel image analysis processed images from 88 052 UK Biobank (UKB) participants (aged 40-69 years at image capture) and 7411 European Prospective Investigation into Cancer (EPIC)-Norfolk participants. Retinal arteriolar and venular width, tortuosity and area were extracted.

Study included adults free of heart failure at baseline enrolled between 2006 and 2010 in the UK Biobank. Five types of childhood maltreatment (range, 0-5) were combined into a total score. Incident all-cause heart failure was prospectively ascertained via hospital inpatient and death records, followed up to May 31, 2021.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) on diverse ancestry groups are lacking, resulting in deficits of genetic discoveries and polygenic scores. We conducted GWAS for 76 phenotypes in Korean biobank data, namely the Korean Genome and Epidemiology Study. Our analysis discovered 2,242 associated loci, including 122 novel associations.

Arterial stiffness, measured by arterial stiffness index (ASI), can be considered as a major denominator in cardiovascular diseases. This study investigates among UK Biobank participants without cardiovascular diseases, the hypothesis that K-means cluster analysis can be used to identify homogeneous phenotyping subgroups of participants.

The exact pathogeny of psychiatric disorders remains elusive now. We aim to explore the potential interaction effects of mitochondrial function and human behavior on the risks of anxiety and depression. In total samples, we observed mitochondrial heteroplasmy (MtHz) vs. Drinking (P GAD-7  = 6.49 × 10 -3 ; P PHQ-9  = 1.89 × 10-3 ) was positively associated with both anxiety and Depression.

Brain imaging outcomes are important for Alzheimer's disease detection. Prediction based on both genetic and demographic risk factors can facilitate prevention and treatment of AD. Existing studies have identified numerous significantly AD-associated SNPs.

Resting heart rate (RHR) has been linked with an increased risk of dementia. This study aims to investigate the relationships of RHR with different dementia types, cognitive function, and brain structural abnormalities.

From 2006 to 2010, 254,575 women and 214,891 men were included from the UK Biobank. Cox regression estimated overall and sex-specific hazard ratios (HRs) for apolipoprotein A (ApoA), ApoB, HDL, LDL, total cholesterol, triglycerides, lipoprotein A, and various lipid ratios, by quarters and standard deviation (SD) higher.

Calcification of large arteries is a high-risk factor in the development of cardiovascular diseases. Due to the lack of routine monitoring, the pathology remains severely under-diagnosed. We have developed a set of machine learning methods to quantitate levels of abdominal aortic calcification.

Study investigated whether a healthy lifestyle is associated with lower CRC risk, regardless of genetic risk. We recruited 390,365 participants without cancer at baseline (2006-2010) from the UK Biobank. A healthy lifestyle score was constructed using 16 factors of six dimensions.

Sugar intake was assessed in 186 811 UK Biobank participants. Over a mean follow-up of 12.3 years, 8576 (4.6%) deaths occurred. FS but not intrinsic sugars were significantly and dose-dependently associated with hazard ratio (HR)

Sugar consumption was assessed in 188,426 participants (age range: 39-72 years, 54.4% female) The hazard ratios (HR) for incident depression were assessed with Cox proportional hazard regression models. FS in beverages were significantly associated with depression risk in an ascending approximately linear way with the lowest HR at 4%.

Several genes have been proposed as causal for maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) Scoring systems to annotate mutation pathogenicity have been widely used. However, statistical evidence for being a highly penetrant MODY gene has not been well-established.

Fish oil is one of the most popular supplements in the UK. However, the relationship between fish oil use and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is unclear. This study included 484,414 participants from the UK Biobank.

The UK-Biobank contains data on total plasma  n 3-PUFA% and DHA% measured by NMR. The aim of our study was to create an equation to estimate the O3I (eO3I) from these data. We first performed an inter-laboratory experiment with 250 random blood samples.

There is increasing evidence suggesting a shared genetic basis between IPF and other diseases. We identified 12 candidate genes across 13 genomic regions using local genetic correlation. Two TFs showed significant enrichment in both partitioned heritability and cell-type-specific DEGs.

Brain imaging-derived phenotypes (IDPs) and psychiatric disorders have been reported. Whether the relationships are causal is uncertain. We identified nine IDPs for which there was evidence of a causal influence on risk of schizophrenia, anorexia nervosa and bipolar disorder.

Occupational exposures may play a key role in severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection risk. We used a job-exposure matrix linked to the UK Biobank to measure occupational characteristics.

 Observational studies have suggested a potential non-linear association between sleep duration and hyperuricemia. However, the causal nature and sex-specific differences are poorly understood. We aimed to determine the shape of sex- specific causal associations. Genetically predicted short sleep duration is a potential causal risk factor for hyperurICemia for females but has little effect on males. Long sleep duration does not appear to be causally associated with hyperurica.

Metabolic syndrome may contribute to the rising incidence of multiple gastrointestinal (GI) cancers. The association between nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and risk of non-liver GI cancers is unexplored. We prospectively examined the associations of NAFLD risk with GI cancers among 319,290 participants in the UK Biobank (2006-2019)

Exome sequencing data of 160,615 individuals of the UK Biobank and 18,797 individuals of BioMe Biobanks. 746 carriers of rare functional HNF1A variants (minor allele frequency &#8804;1%), of which 507 carry variants in the functional domains. A higher PRS was associated with increased odds of type 2 diabetes in all ancestries.

Research into idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) has been limited by the rarity of the disease itself. Global biobanking efforts can dramatically alter the future of IPF research.

A total of 305,969 participants from the UK Biobank Cohort - an open access cohort of 500,000 participants recruited in the United Kingdom between 2006 and 2010 - were included in the study. For every 10dB increase in road traffic noise, there was a 4% increase in T2D risk.

White, South Asian and Black UK Biobank participants recruited from 2006-2010 and followed up until 2020. During follow-up, 5,972 people (2.03%) developed dementia. Risk of dementia was higher in Black participants than White participants. Association between each risk factor and dementia was similar in each ethnic group.

Previous studies have suggested that gene-environment interactions (GEIs) between a common variant and an environmental factor can influence multiple correlated phenotypes simultaneously. Methods to test the GEI for rare variants with multiple phenotypes are, however, lacking. We propose four multiphenotype GEI tests for rare variant.

Common single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are predicted to collectively explain 40-50% of phenotypic variation in human height. Identifying the specific variants and associated regions requires huge sample sizes. We show that 12,111 independent SNPs that are significantly associated with height account for nearly all of the common SNP-based heritability.

Overweight and obesity are well-established risk factors for COVID-19 severity. Less is known about the role of sedentary behaviors such as television (TV) viewing. We analyzed 329,751 UK Biobank participants to investigate the independent and combined associations of BMI and self-reported TV viewing time.

Few studies have examined the long-term association between stair climbing and the incidence of type 2 diabetes (T2D) We included 451,699 adults without T2D at baseline in the UK Biobank and followed up to 2021.

TL-PRS uses gradient descent to fine-tune the baseline PRS model from an ancestry group with large sample GWASs to the dataset of target ancestry. In our application of constructing PRS for seven quantitative and two dichotomous traits for 10,285 individuals of South Asian ancestry and 8,168 individuals of African ancestry in UK Biobank we obtained 25% average relative improvement for South Asian samples.

The modification of physical activity (PA) on the metabolic status in relation to atrial fibrillation (AF) in obesity remains unknown. We aimed to investigate the independent and joint associations of metabolic status and PA with the risk of AF in obese population. MHO was significantly associated with a 35% reduced AF risk compared with MUO.

We develop a framework to infer the effect of potential, hidden mediators influencing complex traits. This framework can be used to place boundaries on unexplained risk factors contributing tocomplex traits.

Physically-demanding occupations may increase rotator cuff disease (RCD) risk and need for surgery. We linked a job-exposure matrix (JEM) to the UK Biobank cohort study to measure physical occupational exposures. Of 277 808 people reporting jobs, 1997 (0.7%) had an inpatient RCD surgery.

South Asians have a two- to fivefold higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes than those of white European descent. Greater central adiposity and storage of fat in deeper or ectopic depots are potential contributing mechanisms. We summarised imaging data on SAT, VAT and liver fat from eight published and three previously unpublished datasets.

Cloud computing makes access to supercomputers affordable. Deep learning software libraries make programming statistical algorithms easy. Fitting this half-million-variate model takes less than 45 minutes and reconfirms known associations.

The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has demonstrated the value of real-world data for public health research. Common data models (CDMs) are critical for enabling these studies to be performed efficiently. We converted UK Biobank data to OMOP CDM v. 5.3.

Evidence concerning the associations of ambient air pollution exposure with bone mineral density and osteoporosis has been mixed. We conducted a cross-sectional and prospective analysis of the associations between air pollution and osteoarthritis using data from the UK Biobank study. Among the 341,311 participants at baseline, higher pollution exposure was associated with lower eBMD levels and increased odds of osteop orosis.

The multiple comorbidities & dimensions of chronic pain present a formidable challenge in disentangling its aetiology. We performed genome-wide association studies of 8 chronic pain types using UK Biobank data. Across 5,942 significant genetic correlations, 570 trait pairs could be explained by a causal association (|GCP| >0.6; 5% false discovery rate)

Hyperopia was significantly associated with an increased risk of incident CSD. This was independent of genetic predisposition to hyperopia. This emphasises the importance of regular vision screening and correction of hyperopia to reduce the risk of CSD regardless of genetic risk.

Habitual coffee consumption is an addictive behavior with unknown genetic variations. We performed exome-wide association studies to identify rare risk variants. A total of 34,761 qualifying variants were imported into SKAT.

Perivascular spaces (PVS) are emerging markers of cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD) Research on their determinants has been hampered by conflicting results from small single studies using heterogeneous rating methods. We aimed to identify determinants of PVS burden in a pooled analysis of multiple cohort studies using 1 harmonized PVS rating method.

A longer duration of hypertension (HTN) has been suggested to be associated with a greater risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) Whether such an association is similar for mortality risk, and whether HTN duration is associated with CVD/mortality beyond blood pressure (BP) control levels are yet to be assessed. We aimed to examine the associations of HTN. duration and the combination of HTn duration and systolic blood pressure. with risks of CVD and all-cause mortality.

Pathogenic variants in HNF1A, HNF4A, and GCK account for >80% of monogenic diabetes. We show that one in 1,500 individuals harbor a pathogenic variant in one of these genes. The penetrance of diabetes for these variants was substantially lower in the clinically unselected individuals compared to clinically referred probands.

 Meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have demonstrated the efficacy of vitamin D supplementation for reduced cancer mortality, all-cause mortality, and respiratory tract infections. However, whether and to what extent this translates into effectiveness in real-world practice is unknown.

Recent studies have shown that obesity is associated with asthma in adults. The relationship between childhood obesity and childhood asthma remains to be clarified. In the present study, we investigated the shared genetic components between body mass index (BMI, n = 39620) in children and Childhood asthma. The findings shed light on childhood asthma pathogenic mechanisms and prevention.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a complex disease linked to several chronic diseases. We aimed at identifying genetic variants associated with NAFLD and evaluating their functional consequences. We performed a genome-wide meta-analysis of 4 cohorts of electronic health record-documented NAFLd in participants of European ancestry (8,434 cases and 770,180 controls)

Developing functional insight into the causal molecular drivers of immunological disease is a critical challenge in genomic medicine. We systematically apply Mendelian randomization (MR), genetic colocalization, immune-cell-type enrichment, and phenome-wide association methods to investigate the effects of genetically predicted gene expression on ten immune-associated diseases and four cancer outcomes.

The discovery of human obesity-associated genes can reveal new mechanisms to target for weight loss therapy. We uncovered a large number of rare homozygous gene variants by exome sequencing of severely obese children. We identified 4 genes, not previously linked to human obesity, that regulate adiposity (itpr, dachsous, calpA, and sdk)

Clinical classification is essential for estimating disease prevalence but is difficult, often requiring complex investigations. The widespread availability of population level genetic data makes novel genetic stratification techniques a highly attractive alternative.

Cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) and physical activity (PA) are well-established predictors of morbidity and all-cause mortality. CRF is not routinely measured and PA not routinely prescribed as part of standard healthcare. We leverage genetic data in the UK Biobank to strengthen the case for CRF as a vital sign.

Disease heterogeneity is a significant obstacle to understanding pathological processes and delivering precision diagnostics and treatment. Clustering methods have gained popularity for stratifying patients into subpopulations of brain diseases using imaging data. Unsupervised clustering approaches are often confounded by anatomical and functional variations not related to a disease or pathology of interest.

Illumina developed a more efficient and scalable version of our mobile element locator tool (MELT) We then used MELT to perform MEI discovery in 57,919 human genomes and exomes. This led to the discovery of 104,350 nonredundant MEIs. We leveraged this collection to examine potentially active L1 source elements.

 orbital telorism is a distinctive craniofacial trait that also serves as a clinically informative measure. Heritability estimates were 76% (standard error = 12%) with a family-based method. Genome-wide association studies in 34 130 Europeans identified 56 significantly associated genomic loci.

Vitamin D status of the UK African-Caribbean population remains under-researched. Over one third of the population were deficient ( 50 nmol/L) Winter blood draw, not consuming oily fish and not using vitamin D supplements predicted increased odds of vitamin D deficiency.

We examined data collected from 7,152 participants of the United Kingdom Biobank study. Consistent weekly attendance at a sports club or gym was associated with connectivity of the sensorimotor functional network with the lateral visual and cerebellar networks. Visiting friends and family across the two timepoints was also associated with larger volumes of the occipital lobe.

Maternal blood pressure (BP) during pregnancy is associated with increased future risk of offspring cardiometabolic disease. It is unclear whether this association represents a causal relationship through intrauterine mechanisms. We used a Mendelian randomization framework to examine the relationship between unweighted maternal genetic scores for systolic BP and diastolic BP. We found little evidence to support the notion that maternal BP is a major causal risk factor.

Hypertension is a leading contributor to the global burden of disease and to mortality. The combined effects of sleep factors on the risk of hypertension are unclear. We aimed to evaluate whether this association is independent of genetic risk. A total of 170,378 participants were included in the UK Biobank study.

Based on up to 352,277 European ancestry participants in the UK Biobank, we constructed polygenic risk scores for 15 physiological and biochemical quantitative traits. We identified a total of 185 polygenic prediction variability quantitative trait loci for 11 traits.

Hip fracture is the clinically most important fracture, but the genetic architecture of hip fracture is unclear. Here, we perform a large-scale hip fracture genome-wide association study meta-analysis and Mendelian randomization study. The results show that five genetic signals associate with hip fractures.

We used logistic regression to investigate the joint associations of physical activity level (high: &#8805;3000 MET-min/week) and TV viewing time with COVID-19 mortality risk in UK Biobank. Additional models were performed with adjustment for body mass index (BMI) and waist circumference.

Mosaic chromosomal alterations (mCAs) detected from blood-derived DNA are large structural alterations of clonal haematopoietic origin. We aimed to investigate whether mCAs contribute to the risk of lung cancer and modify the effect of polygenic risk score on lung cancer risk prediction.

It remains unknown whether higher dietary intake of antioxidant vitamins could reduce the harmful effects of air pollution on incident diabetes mellitus. Antioxidant vitamin intake was measured using a 24-h food intake questionnaire. Exposure to fine particles (PM 2.5, PM 10, NO 2 ) was estimated using land use regression models at participants' residences.

Mitral annular disjunction is the atrial displacement of the mural mitral valve leaflet hinge point within the atrioventricular junction. Said to be associated with malignant ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death.

 Theory for liability-scale models of the underlying genetic basis of complex disease provides an important way to interpret, compare, and understand results. liability models facilitate an understanding and comparison of the relative importance of genetic and environmental risk factors that shape different clinically important disease outcomes.

Depression and anxiety are two major categories of mental disorders that are highly prevalent in the general population. We calculate genetic risk scores for depression, anxiety and mental disorders based on 37/44 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) and 9/10 SNPs of anxiety. People with pre-frailty and frailty suffered higher risks ofmental disorders than the non-frail group.

Pathogenic and likely pathogenic variants associated with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) are recommended to be reported as secondary findings in genome sequencing studies. This provides opportunities for early diagnosis, but also fuels uncertainty in variant carriers (G+) We assessed the prevalence and disease expression of G+ in the general population.

Regular use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) was associated with the lower risk of colorectal cancer (CRC) Whether regular use of NSAIDs could attenuate the effect of genetic risk and environmental risk factors on CRC is unknown.

Candidate gene studies have identified genetic variants associated with clinical outcomes following aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (aSAH) No genome-wide association studies have been performed to date.

Evidence on the association between air pollution and dementia is accumulating but still inconclusive. The potential effect modification by genetics is unclear. We investigated the joint effects of air pollution exposure and genetic risk on incident dementia.

Study included cancer-free UK Biobank participants aged 40-69 years. Alcohol consumption was categorised based on current UK guidelines into four groups. Risk of obesity-related cancer increased with higher adiposity in a dose-response manner.

Diet is a modifiable risk factor for common chronic diseases and mental health disorders. Diet indices enable a holistic estimation of diet and account for the intercorrelations between food and nutrients. We identified seven independent single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with DASH.

Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) affects about 40% of patients with diabetes. It is incurable and usually leads to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) The genetics of DKD have not yet been extensively studied.

Different populations may exhibit differences in dietary intakes, which may result in heterogeneities in diet-disease associations. We compared intakes of major food groups overall, by sex, and by socio-economic status (SES) between participants in the China Kadoorie Biobank (CKB) and the UK Biobanks (UKB)

QT interval length is an important risk factor for adverse cardiovascular outcomes. The genetic architecture of QT interval remains incompletely understood. We conducted a genome-wide association study of 76,995 ancestrally diverse Kaiser Permanente members.

COVID-19 cases were defined using health record linkage. Each case was propensity score-matched to two uninfected controls on age, sex, deprivation, body mass index, ethnicity, diabetes, prevalent ischaemic heart disease, smoking, hypertension and high cholesterol.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver (NAFL) and its sequelae are growing health problems. We performed a genome-wide association study of NAFL, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. We found rare, protective, predicted loss-of-function variants in MTARC1 and GPAM, underscoring them as potential drug targets.

Low vitamin D status is associated with increased mortality, but randomized trials on severely deficient participants are lacking. UK Biobank, a large-scale, prospective cohort from England, Scotland, and Wales with participants recruited between March 2006 and July 2010. All-cause and cause-specific mortality were recorded up to June 2020.

Intracranial volume, measured through magnetic resonance imaging and/or estimated from head circumference, is heritable and correlates with cognitive traits and several neurological disorders. Parkinson's disease cases have greater and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder cases smaller intracranialvolume than controls.

Study examined the effect of air pollutants exposure on CKD in the European population. 458,968 participants from the UK Biobank were included in this study. The associations between air pollutants and CKD were modest and marginal in the high genetic risk population.

Vigorous physical activity (VPA) is a time-efficient way to achieve recommended physical activity levels. There is a very limited understanding of the minimal and optimal amounts of vigorous physical activity in relation to mortality and disease incidence.

The interplay between physical activity (PA) volume and intensity is poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate the role of PA intensity, over and above volume, in relation to incident CVD. Data were from 88 412 UK Biobank middle-aged adults (58% women) without prevalent CVD who wore accelerometers for 7 days.

Ultra-processed food (UPF) consumption has been linked to increased incidence and prevalence of chronic diseases, including inflammatory bowel diseases. We aimed to investigate the association between UPF consumption and IBD incidence, prevalence, and I BD-relevant outcomes. We performed a cross-sectional and prospective cohort study in 187 854 individuals included in the national UK Biobank.

Heavy drinking was well associated with an increased risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) The effect of low-to-moderate drinking on HCC remains under debate.

From 2013 to 2015, 106,053 UK Biobank participants took part in a 7-day accelerometer test. Glaucoma patients spent 4.7% less time on MVPA in multivariable models. Compared with those with normal body mass index, the decreased MVPA time was more pronounced in participants with overweight and obesity.

Study included 33,236 participants (aged 40-72) with type 2 diabetes from the UK Biobank. Favorable CVH metrics consisted of non-smoker, regular physical activity, a healthy diet, non-overweight, untreated resting blood pressure   3 mg/L.

Circulating levels of amino acids were associated with blood pressure (BP) in observational studies. The causation of such associations has been hypothesized but is difficult to prove in human studies. Here, we aimed to use two-sample Mendelian randomization analyses to evaluate the potential causal associations.

Metabolic profile in middle-to-older age can predict cancer incidence, in particular risk of obesity-related cancer, hematologic malignancies, and liver cancer. Elevated values from liver tests are strong predictors for later risk of Liver cancer.

Previous studies showed that gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) can be a risk factor for subsequent atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. There is a paucity of information regarding diverse cardiovascular outcomes in elderly women after GDM. We examined whether women with GDM have an increased risk for long-term overall cardiovascular outcomes.

End-stage renal disease is associated with a high risk of cardiovascular events. It is unknown whether mild-to-moderate kidney dysfunction is causally related to coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke. Using a genetic risk score of 218 variants for estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), we conducted Mendelian randomization analyses involving 413 718 participants.

T2D diagnosed at a younger age was associated with larger reductions in brain volume. After adjustment for glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) and other covariates, only T1D diagnosed.

Researchers have identified an association between lifestyle factors and colorectal cancer (CRC) risk. 392,252 individuals were sampled from the UK Biobank. Healthy sleep scores were inversely associated with CRC events.

We used data from the UK biobank of 204,646 adults aged 37-73 free of dementia at baseline. Genetic risk for dementia including APOE &#949;4 status and polygenic risk score (PRS) categorized as low, intermediate, and high. CMDs including ischemic heart disease (IHD), stroke, and type 2 diabetes (T2D) were confirmed by touchscreen questionnaires.

Air pollution is associated with different progressions and outcomes of T2D. Exposures to particulate matter with a diameter &#8804; 10 &#956;m (PM10), PM2.5, nitrogen oxides (NOx), and NO2 for each transition stage were estimated at each participant's residential addresses using data from the UK's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.

A decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) leading to chronic kidney disease is a significant public health problem. Kidney function is a heritable trait, and recent application of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) successfully identified multiple eGFR-associated genetic loci. We improved our recently developed quasi-adaptive method estimating SNP-specific alpha levels for the conditional analysis.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a component of familial melanoma. It is unclear what role this gene or other genes play in its etiology. We analyzed 189 cancer predisposition genes using parametric rare-variant association (RVA) tests and nonparametric permutation tests.

The aim of this study was to examine the associations of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) and physical activity (PA) with age-related cataract and its subtypes. A total of 291,627 participants enrolled in the UK Biobank cohort during 2006-2010 was included.

Contactin-5 (CNTN5) is a candidate risk gene for autism spectrum disorder (ASD) Previous attempts to associate CNTN 5 CNVs with ASD-susceptibility were limited by insufficient statistical power. We aim to clarify the putative association between CNTn5 CNVs and ASD-risk using large-scale case-control analyses.

Multiple human pathogens establish chronic, sometimes life-long infections. These infections can trigger some degree of local or systemic immune response. There remains an incomplete understanding of the potential contribution of persistent infections and human genetic variation on chronic low-grade inflammation. We searched for potential associations between seropositivity for 13 persistent pathogens and the plasma levels of the inflammatory biomarker C-reactive protein (CRP)

Despite the increasing popularity of supplement use among the cancer community, the current evidence on its effect on mortality in large studies is inconclusive. This study examined the association of dietary supplement use with mortality risk in a large population-based cohort.

Self-reported trauma exposure has consistently been found to be a risk factor for major depressive disorder (MDD) To date, most studies have examined gene-environment interactions with trauma exposure using genome-wide variants (single-nucleotide variations [SNVs) or polygenic scores. The current study used available cross-sectional genomic and trauma exposure data from UK Biobank.

There is a link between factors related to ovulation and reproductive function and endometrial cancer (EC) risk. It is not clear whether these relationships are causal, and whether the risk factors act independently of each other. The aim of this study was to investigate putative causal relationships between the number of live births and EC risk.

Hypertension remains the major cardiovascular disease risk factor globally. variability in measured blood pressure may result in suboptimal management. Blood pressure polygenic risk score may augment identification of individuals at heightened cardiovascular risk. Whether it may also guide antihypertensive initiation or intensification requires further study.

Study was a prospective cohort study in the UK Biobank. Snoring, daytime sleepiness, insomnia, and short/long duration, individually or jointly, were all associated with the risk of glaucoma.

Aims: To identify metabolites associated with a healthy lifestyle and explore the possible mechanisms of lifestyle in coronary artery disease (CAD) The nuclear magnetic resonance metabolomics platform was applied to perform metabolomic profiling of baseline plasma samples from a subset of 121 733 UK Biobank participants.

Physical activity (PA) is recommended in the management of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) Using data from the UK Biobank population-cohort, this study examined associations between habitual PA and hepatic fibro-inflammation.

In UK Biobank, a total of 308,534 dementia-free participants with valid lung function measures (forced expiratory volume in 1 s [FEV1] and forced vital capacity [FVC]) were included. Restrictive impairment (hazard ratio [HR], 1.42; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.27-1.60) and obstructive impairment were associated with higher risk of all-cause dementia.

Study aimed to investigate the association between residential greenness and dementia incidence. The effects of particulate air pollution on mediating dementia were also determined. Results indicated that there were 4929 ACD, 2132 AD, and 1184 VD incidents.

Information theory-based measures of variable dependency have been implemented into a software package, MIST. The design of the software and its potential uses are described, and a demonstration is presented in the discovery of modifier alleles of the ApoE gene in affecting Alzheimer's disease.

Spinal cord cross-sectional area (CSA) is a relevant biomarker to assess spinal cord atrophy in neurodegenerative diseases. However, the considerable inter-subject variability among healthy participants currently limits its usage. Previous studies explored factors contributing to the variability, yet the normalization models required manual intervention and used vertebral levels as a reference.

Previous studies have shown anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory benefits of glucosamine. This study was performed to prospectively evaluate the association between glucosamines and the mortality of multiple cancers. A total of 453,645 participants aged 38-73 who had no cancer at baseline were recruited between 2006 and 2010.

PM 2.5 , smoking, and genetic factors are associated with lung cancer. Relationship between PM 2. 5 , smoking and subtypes of lung cancer remains unclear. It is unclear whether genetic risk modifies the impact of PM2.5 and smoking.

Preeclampsia and gestational hypertensive disorders (GHD) are common complications of pregnancy. High BMI, advanced age, and pre-existing conditions are known risk factors for GHD. This study demonstrates that a risk score developed with machine learning from the case-control genetics dataset can be used as an early screening test.

Study aims to describe the grading methods and baseline characteristics for UK Biobank participants who underwent retinal imaging in 2009-2010. Captured retinal features included those associated with age-related macular degeneration (AMD), glaucoma and retinopathy.

Metabolic traits are heritable phenotypes widely-used in assessing the risk of various diseases. We conduct a genome-wide association analysis (GWAS) of nine metabolic traits in 125,872 Korean subjects.

Adults with congenital heart disease (CHD) face increased risk of various comorbid diseases. Previous work on lung dysfunction in this population has mainly focused on restrictive lung disease, in patients with severe CHD phenotypes. We examined the association of mild CHD with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in the UK Biobank.

Study examined the interplay of apolipoprotein B (apoB) and LDL particle size, approximated by the LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C)/apoB ratio, on the risk of new-onset coronary heart disease (CHD) For all 3 cohorts, CHD risk was higher for higher levels of apoB.

Comparing with the general population, the pain in depression patients has more complex biological mechanism. We aim to explore the etiological mechanism of pain in depressed patients from the perspective of genetics. Utilizing the UK Biobank samples with self-reported depression status, we conducted genome-wide association studies of seven pain traits.

Large epidemiological studies such as the UK Biobank (UKBB) or German National Cohort (NAKO) provide unprecedented health-related data of the general population. As part of these studies, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is performed in a subset of participants allowing for phenotypical and functional characterization of different organ systems.

Low serum 25(OH)D3 (vD) is an environmental risk factor for multiple sclerosis (MS) Lower vD levels during early disease may be associated with long-term disability. We developed a vD-weighted genetic risk score (GRS) and validated this in 373,357 UK Biobank participants without MS.

Identical genetic variations can have different phenotypic effects depending on their parent of origin. Studies focusing on parent-of-origin effects have been limited in terms of sample size due to the lack of parental genomes or known genealogies. We propose a probabilistic approach that does not require parental genomes nor prior knowledge of genealogy. We combine this with robust haplotype inference and haploid imputation to infer the parent- of-origin for 26,393 UK Biobank individuals.

Of the 1.3 billion smokers globally, 80% live in low- and middle-income countries. The number of deaths due to tobacco use is expected to double in the next decade according to the World Health Organization.

UK Biobank participants (n = 359,153) without diabetes at baseline were included. Exposure to air pollution, including PM2.5, PMcoarse, PM10, and NO2, was estimated from land use regression models. Compared with a low PA level, the HRs for the risk of T2D among individuals with moderate and high PA were 0.82 and 0.73.

Previous genetic MPB prediction models were limited by sparse marker coverage, small sample size, and/or data dependency in the different analytical steps. We selected 117 SNP predictors within 85 distinct loci from a list of 270 previously MPB-associated SNPs in 55,573 males of the UK Biobank Study. Based on these 117 SNPs with and without age as additional predictor, we trained, by use of different methods, prediction models.

 Milk consumption is a modifiable lifestyle factor that has been associated with several cancer types in observational studies. Limited evidence exists regarding the causality of these relationships. Using a genetic variant (rs4988235) near the lactase gene (LCT) locus that proxies milk consumption, we conducted a comprehensive survey to assess potential causal relationships.

 Globally, more than 1.9 billion adults are overweight. Obesity is a major risk factor for diabetes mellitus, coronary heart disease, and cardiovascular disease. Information on genome-wide genetic variants has been used to estimate the genome- wide polygenic score (GPS)

Study of brain asymmetry has focused on pairwise comparisons between homologous regions. By pooling information on left-right shifts underlying whole-brain structure, we deconvolved signatures. Classically asymmetric regions turned out to belong to more than one asymmetry pattern.

Asthma is a heterogeneous, complex syndrome, and identifying asthma endotypes has been challenging. We hypothesize that distinct endotypes of asthma arise in disparate genetic variation and life-time environmental exposure backgrounds. We computationally discover 22 distinct comorbid disease patterns among individuals with asthma.

Study of 291,305 unrelated White British UK Biobank participants enrolled from 2006 to 2010. Case-control sample of 9499 prevalent CAD cases and an equal number of randomly selected controls was used for tuning and integrating of the polygenic risk scores. A separate cohort of 272,307 individuals was used to examine the risk prediction performance of pooled cohort equations.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia. It is associated with a higher risk of important adverse health outcomes such as stroke and death. AF is linked to distinct electro-anatomic alterations. The main tool for AF diagnosis is the Electrocardiogram (ECG)

Hearing impairment was recently identified as the most prominent risk factor for dementia. However, the mechanisms underlying the link between hearing impairment and dementia are still unclear. We investigated the association of hearing performance with cognitive function, brain structure and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteins.

Integrating polygenic risk scores with QCancer-10 modestly improves risk prediction. The added benefit, cost effectiveness, and acceptability of polygenicrisk scores should be carefully evaluated in a real life screening setting.

Schizophrenia (SCZ) and bipolar disorder (BD) are severe psychiatric conditions that can involve symptoms of psychosis and cognitive dysfunction. The 2 conditions share symptomatology and genetic etiology. We examined how genetic liability to SCZ and BD shapes normative variations in brain connectivity.

Sleep duration was coded as continuous and categorical (&#8804;5, 6, 7, 8, &#8805;9 h/day) variables. Daytime napping was defined as yes (sometimes/usually) and no (never/rarely) Incident IBD cases were defined from primary care and hospital inpatient records.

Study compared accuracy of ten reported approaches for classifying insulin-treated diabetes into type 1 (T1D) and type 2 (T2D) diabetes in two cohorts. When classifying all participants, combining early insulin requirement with a T1D probability model (incorporating diagnosis age and body image issue [BMI]), and interview-reported diabetes type consistently achieved high accuracy.

Common genetic variants have been linked to breast cancer risk, but they only partially explain the total breast cancer heritability. Inference from Nordic population-based twin data indicates rare high-risk loci as the chief determinant of breast cancerrisk. Here, we use haplotypes, rather than single variants, to identify rare high risk loci.

Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are widely used and have been linked to kidney diseases. However, the role of PPI use in the development of chronic kidney disease (CKD) remains unclear. We undertook a prospective analysis of 462,421 participants from the United Kingdom Biobank.

Untargeted high-throughput metabolomic technologies provide an in-depth snapshot of human metabolism at scale. We studied the genetic architecture of the human plasma metabolome using 913 metabolites assayed in 19,994 individuals and identified 2,599 variant-metabolite associations.

A screening tool to assess if an older individual is likely to have a lower dietary protein intake (predicted probability of protein intake &#8804;1&#8901;0 g/kg per d), has been developed for a Netherlands dietary profile. This study aimed to adapt and then validate the protein screening tool for use in a UK population.

Preserved ratio impaired spirometry (PRISm) findings are a heterogeneous condition characterized by a normal FEV 1 to FVC ratio with underlying impairment of pulmonary function. Data relating to the association of baseline and trajectories of PRISm findings with diverse cardiovascular outcomes are sparse.

In the UK Biobank, 484,169 participants (mean age = 56.5 years; 45.2% men) free of dementia were followed from baseline (2006-2010) through July 30, 2021. During a median 12.4 years of follow-up, 6904 all-cause dementia cases and 2115 deaths from dementia were recorded. Replacing sedentary time with equal time spent doing PA may be associated with a significant reduction in dementia incidence and mortality risk.

Osteoarthritis is a common and severe, multifactorial disease with a well-established genetic component. Little is known about how genetics affect disease progression, and thereby the need for joint placement. We aimed to investigate whether the genetic associations of knee and hip osteoarth arthritis differ between patients treated with joint replacement and patients without joint replacement.

 associations between coffee and tea consumption with cardiovascular disease (CVD) and chronic respiratory disease (CRD) remain controversial. This study aims to investigate the separate and combined associations of coffee andTea consumption with CVD, CRD, and their comorbidity.

UK Biobank participants do not have a high-quality measure of intelligence or polygenic scores of intelligence. We created a standardized measure of general intelligence (g factor) relative to the UK population and estimated its quality. For individuals with at least one cognitive test, the g factor from eight cognitive tests (N = 501,650) explained 29% of the variance in cognitive test performance.

Principal component analysis (PCA) was applied to CT of 68 regions in the Desikan-Killiany atlas. PCA produced a spatially broad first principal component (PC1) that was reproducible across datasets. PC1 pattern was also correlated with the spatial pattern of normative maturation and aging.

Genetic deletions at Xp22.31 are associated with the skin condition X linked ichthyosis (XLI), and with a substantially increased risk of atrial fibrillation/flutter (AF), in males. AF is associated with elevated thrombosis, heart failure, stroke and dementia risk.

Ascending thoracic aortic disease is an important cause of sudden death in the U.S. Most aneurysms are identified incidentally. This study developed and validated a clinical score to estimate ascending aorti diameter. The model significantly overestimated or underestimated diameter in external validation.

The influences of diabetes duration and glycemic control and their potential interplays on the risk of heart failure (HF) remain unclear. This work aimed to investigate the association of diabetes. duration and Glycemic control with the risk. of HF.

497,544 UK Biobank participants were followed for an average of 11 years. Loneliness and social isolation were measured via self-report. Mortality and hospitalisations were ascertained to May 2020 for all-cause and CVD mortality.

The science of causal inference has identified situations where causal estimates can be made from observational data. Using the new results, the causal attribution of smoking and BMI to the incidence of 226 diseases in the UK Biobank are estimated. The diseases most strongly attributed to Smoking and BMI are identified.

PXStools is a package for the statistical R. The package allows users to conduct exposure-wide association studies. It can also derive and validate polyexposure risk scores with and without accounting for exposure interactions.

Recessive carriers of nonsynonymous variants in  MAP3K15 were 30% less likely to develop diabetes. These associations were independent of body mass index, suggesting protection against insulin resistance even in the setting of obesity.

People with type 2 diabetes may have insufficient or prolonged sleep that could accelerate cardiovascular disease (CVD) onset. We examined the association of sleep duration with CVD incidence and mortality in this high-risk population. During an average follow-up of 11.0-12.0 years, we documented 2,570 incident cases of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.

Lipedema is a common disorder characterized by excessive deposition of subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) in the legs, hips, and buttocks. Although it appears to be heritable, no specific genes have yet been identified. We identified 18 significant loci (p)

Lower birth weight was associated with greater risk of incident MI and unhealthy LV phenotypes. effects were partially mediated through cardiometabolic disease and systemic inflammation. Findings support consideration of birth weight in risk prediction and highlight actionable areas for disease prevention.

The UK Biobank genotyped about 500k participants using Applied Biosystems Axiom microarrays. Participants were subsequently sequenced by the UK biobank Exome Sequencing Consortium. Axiom genotyping was highly accurate in comparison to sequencing results for almost 100,000 variants.

The observation of genetic correlations between disparate human traits has been interpreted as evidence of widespread pleiotropy. We introduce cross-trait assortative mating (xAM) as an alternative explanation. We observe that xAM affects many phenotypes and that phenotypic cross-mate correlation estimates strongly associated with genetic correlation estimates.

UK Biobank and Scottish Early Rheumatoid Arthritis cohorts linked to mortality and hospitalisation data. Participants with RA + &#8805; 2 LTCs experienced higher hospitalisation rates compared to those with RA alone.

Headache is one of the commonest complaints that doctors need to address in clinical settings. The genetic mechanisms of different types of headache are not well understood. It has been suggested that self-reported headache and self-report migraine were genetically correlated. In this study, we performed a meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies (GWAS)

High intelligence even appears as a protective factor for general anxiety and PTSD. The present study provides robust evidence that highly intelligent individuals do not have more mental health disorders than the average population.

Previous studies have suggested that moderate coffee and tea consumption is associated with lower risk of mortality. This study aimed to evaluate the separate and combined associations of coffee andTea consumption with all-cause and cause-specific mortality.

Cross-sectional analyses tested for associations between RA and RF+ (positive rheumatoid factor) vs. mental health (depression, anxiety, neuroticism), sleep variables and cognition scores in UK Biobank (total n = 484,064) Those RF+ were more likely to report longer sleep duration.

The relationship between sleep disturbances and depression is well documented, yet the biology of sleep is not fully understood. Mitochondria have become of interest not only because of the connection between sleep and metabolism but also because of their involvement in the production of reactive oxygen species, which are largely scavenged during sleep. This is the first study to analyze mtDNA variance in sleep measures in depressed individuals.

Omega-3 (&#969; 3 ) fatty acids are polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) that are largely obtained from diet. They have been speculated to decrease the inflammatory response that is involved in IBD; however, the causality of this association has not been established.

Type III hyperlipidaemia (T3HL) is characterised by equimolar increases in plasma triglycerides (TG) and cholesterol. One TG.PS standard-deviation (SD) was associated with 13.0% (95% confidence-interval 12.0-14.0%) greater TG in OBB and 15.2% (15.0 -15.4%) in UKB. Males were more susceptible to TG. PS effects (4.0%-6.0%), while females were less susceptible. APOE22 carriers had lower apolipoprotein B (apoB) than APOE33 carriers.

Body composition and related risk factors are known to be heritable and identification of their genetic determinants may aid in the development of better prevention and treatment strategies. Recently, whole-body MRI data has become available, providing more specific measures of body composition than anthropometrics such as body mass index.

High alcohol intake is associated with increased mortality. We aimed to identify factors affecting mortality in people drinking extreme amounts of alcohol. Liver disease diagnosis or abnormal liver function tests predicted not only deaths attributed to liver disease but also those from cancers or circulatory diseases.

A later age at natural menopause (ANM) has been linked to several ageing-associated traits including an increased risk of breast and endometrial cancer and a decreased risk of lung cancer, osteoporosis and Alzheimer disease. However, ANM is also related to several proxies for overall health that may confound these associations.

Psoriasis is a chronic systemic inflammatory skin disease, coexisting with depression in up to 25% of patients. Little is known about the drivers of comorbidity, including shared neurobiology and depression brain imaging patterns in patients.

Gut microbiome and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are implicated in the development of depression. The effect of their interactions on the risk of depression remains unclear. We aim to analyze the effect of interactions between gut microbiome and IBD. We also explore candidate genes involving the interactions.

Energy Trade-Off (ETO) between height and weight for individuals with extreme body types was characterized using a novel ETO-Score (ETOS) Height and ETOS trajectories show a two-hit pattern with profound changes during early infancy and at puberty for tall-slender and short-stout body types. We discovered the multiple genomic loci and pathways probably involved in energy trade-off.

Population-based study shows that HbA1c screening in adults aged 40-70 years can reduce the time to diabetes diagnosis by a median of 2.2 years compared with routine clinical care. Female participants with lower Hb a1c and BMI measurements at enrolment experienced the longest delay to clinical diagnosis. The findings support the use of Hb A1C screening to reduce the period for which individuals are living with undiagnosed diabetes.

Residential greenness has been linked to respiratory mortality, but its long-term effect on incident chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) has rarely been investigated. Study was based on over 350 000 participants aged 38-70 of the UK Biobank, followed from 2006 to 2010 baseline to 2021.

We performed phenome-wide Mendelian randomization analysis (MR-PheWAS), two-sample MR analysis, and systemic review to comprehensively explore the health effects of milk consumption in the European population. We found evidence in support of inverse associations of genetically predicted milk consumption with risk of cataract, hypercholesterolemia, and anal and rectal polyps. We also found evidence that milk consumption was inversely associated with asthma, hay fever, multiple sclerosis, colorectal cancer, and Alzheimer's disease.

Disrupted brain structures and several life environmental factors have been shown to influence depression and anxiety, but their interactions with anxiety and depression remain elusive. Genome-wide association study datasets of 15 brain structure longitudinal changes (N = 15,640) were obtained from the published study. Sex stratification in all analyses was performed to reveal sex-specific differences in the interactions.

The male preponderance in prevalence of autism is among the most pronounced sex ratios across neurodevelopmental conditions. The authors sought to elucidate the relationship between autism and typical sex-differential neuroanatomy, cognition, and related gene expression.

Study aimed to explore associations between frailty components and mortality in adults with and without type 2 diabetes (T2D) In both populations the strongest association with all-cause mortality was observed for slow walking pace.

DrugnomeAI estimates the druggability likelihood for every protein-coding gene in the human exome. The tool generates exome-wide predictions based on labelled sets of known drug targets. Features from protein-protein interaction networks are top predictors.

Very little is known about long-term headache following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) We compared aSAH cases to matched controls in the UK Biobank, a prospective cohort study. Persistent headache is more frequent following a SAH compared to controls. The increased frequency of migrainous features suggests that selected patients may benefit from migraine treatment.

The expansion of the cerebral cortex is one of the most distinctive changes in the evolution of the human brain. Cortical expansion and related increases in cortical folding may have contributed to emergence of our capacities for high-order cognitive abilities.

Many different brain atlases exist that subdivide the human cortex into dozens or hundreds of regions-of-interest (ROIs) Inconsistency across studies using one or another cortical atlas may contribute to the replication crisis across the neurosciences.

Vitamin B 12 levels have been associated with a range of diseases across the life-course. We aimed to interrogate genetically predicted vitamin B 12 status in relation to a plethora of clinical outcomes available in the UK Biobank. Genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary data obtained from a Danish and Icelandic cohort of 45,576 individuals were used to identify 8 genetic variants.

Evidence on the association between air pollution and serum glycosylated hemoglobin A 1c (HbA 1c) is limited and inconclusive. We aimed to evaluate the effects of various air pollutants on serum Hb a 1c levels in patients with hypertension. We also explored the modification effect of individual serum vitamin D levels.

The first release of UK Biobank whole-genome sequence data contains 150,119 genomes. We present an open-source pipeline for filtering, phasing, and indexing these genomes.

Automated analysis of cardiovascular magnetic resonance images provides the potential to assess aortic distensibility in large populations. The aim of this study was to compare. the prediction of cardiovascular events by automated cardiovascular. magnetic resonance with those of other simple measures of aort. stiffness suitable for population screening.

VAT was predictive, as obtained by sex-stratified, non-linear prediction models. The highest quintiles of VAT and FMR had the highest hazard ratios (HRs) of all-cause mortality. Significant interactions were observed in both sexes according to age category.

Exome sequence data on 628,388 individuals identified 40,208 carriers of clonal haematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) Analysis of 5,041 health traits from the UK Biobank found relationships between CHIP and severe COVID-19 outcomes. CHIP is associated with solid cancers, including non-melanoma skin cancer and lung cancer.

Study included 109,301 adults with obesity free of prior CVD based on the UK Biobank cohort. MUO was significantly associated with a 74% increased CVD risk compared with MHO. There was a significant interaction between obesity severity and metabolic status on an additive scale.

Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) is a major risk factor for glaucoma. We identified 40 novel rare-variant genes for IOP, such as BOD1L1, ACAD10 and HLA-B. Six of these genes are drug targets that are either established for clinical treatment or in clinical trials.

Schizophrenia is a serious mental disorder with considerable somatic and psychiatric morbidity. It is unclear whether comorbid health conditions predominantly arise due to shared genetic risk or consequent to having schizophrenia. We analysed the effect of schizophrenia polygenic risk scores (PRS) on a broad range of health problems in 406 929 individuals with no schizophrenia diagnosis from the UK Biobank.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) typically co-exists with multimorbidity (presence of 2 or more long-term conditions: LTCs) The associations between CKD, multimorbridity and hospitalisation rates are not known. The aim of this study was to examine hospitalisation. rates in people with and without CKD. Risk factors for hospitalisation were advanced CKD and age over 60.

Anxiety and depressive disorders can be chronic and disabling. Although there are effective treatments, only a fraction of those impaired receive treatment. Predictors of treatment-seeking and treatment receipt could be informative for initiatives aiming to tackle the burden of untreated anxiety and depression.

The high expressing T-allele is a risk allele for the non-infectious aging lung disease idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) We investigated if MUC5B  rs35705950 associates with severe COVID-19. The association was replicated in the Italian ( p  = 0.04), and Spanish case-control cohorts.

MOCOnet is a convolutional neural network solution for generalisable motion artefact correction in T1 maps. The network architecture employs U-Net for producing distance vector fields and utilises warping layers to apply deformation to the feature maps in a coarse-to-fine manner. Using the UK Biobank imaging dataset scanned at 1.5T, M OCOnet was trained on 1,536 mid-ventricular T1 mapping with motion artefacts.

Human social neuroscience studies have placed a premium on the default network (DN) In contrast, hippocampus (HC) subfields have been intensely studied in rodents and monkeys. We quantified how DN subregions systematically covary with specific HC subfields in the context of subjective social isolation (i.e., loneliness)

Drug targets with human genetic evidence of disease association are twice as likely to lead to approved drugs. A key enabler of identifying and validating these genetically validated targets is access to association results from genome-wide genotyping, whole-exome sequencing, and whole-genome sequencing studies.

As a marker for glomerular filtration, plasma cystatin C level is used to evaluate kidney function. We performed genome-wide association and pathway association studies using United Kingdom Biobank data. Three genes showed the most significant associations, including the CST8-CST9 cluster on chromosome 20.

Oxytocin is a neuromodulator and hormone that is typically associated with social cognition and behavior. Research has investigated its potential as a treatment for psychiatric illnesses characterized by social dysfunction. Recent evidence suggests that the oxytocin system is also linked with cardiometabolic conditions.

We combined conventional evidence from longitudinal data in UK Biobank and genetic evidence from Mendelian randomization (MR) approach to infer the causality between sleep behaviors and fracture risk. We found that participants with insomnia showed 6.4% higher risk of fracture. falls and bone mineral density (BMD) mediated 24.6% and 10.6%.

The pipeline was tested using information from 502,506 UK Biobank participants, aged 37-73 years at recruitment and followed over seven years for mortality registrations. Of the total variable importance summed up, 60% was directly health related.

Enlargement or aneurysm of the aorta predisposes to dissection, an important cause of sudden death. We trained a deep learning model to evaluate the dimensions of the ascending and descending thoracicAorta in 4.6 million cardiac magnetic resonance images from the UK Biobank. We identified 82 loci associated with ascending and 47 with descending aortic diameter.

We analyze how measures of adiposity - body mass index (BMI) and waist hip ratio (WHR) - causally influence rates of hospital admission. We implement a novel quasi-Poisson instrumental variable model in a Mendelian randomization framework. We estimate the individual and joint effects of BMI, WHR, and WHR adjusted for BMI.

We used data on 76,958 adults from the UK Biobank prospective cohort study. Favourable lifestyle included no overweight/obesity, not smoking, physical activity, not sedentary, healthy diet and adequate sleep. Polygenic Risk Score (PRS) was derived using 300 CVD-related single nucleotide polymorphisms.

The association between cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) and genetic polymorphisms in key regulators of Ca 2+ homeostasis is well established but still inadequately understood. The associations of 11,274 genetic variants located in nine calcium signaling-related genes with 118 diseases of the circulatory system were explored.

We develop a Bayesian model (BayesRR-RC) that provides robust SNP-heritability estimation. It takes 22 seconds per iteration to estimate 8.4 million SNP-effects and 78 SNP-Heritability parameters in the UK Biobank. We find that only &#8804;10% of the genetic variation captured for height, body mass index, cardiovascular disease, and type 2 diabetes is attributable to proximal regulatory regions.

Physical activity (PA) and discretionary screen time (DST) are both associated with obesity risk. Little longitudinal evidence exists on their combined influence. We examined the independent and joint associations of changes in PA and DST with incident obesity, body mass index (BMI) and waist circumference.

UK Biobank participants with no significant ocular history were included. Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) images were taken and segmented to define retinal layers. AMD risk associated SNPs were strongly associated with outer-retinal layer thickness.

Despite the increasing global burden of neurological disorders, there is a lack of effective diagnostic and therapeutic biomarkers. Proteins are often dysregulated in disease and have a strong genetic component. Here, we carry out a protein quantitative trait locus analysis of 184 neurologically-relevant proteins.

This study aims to disentangle the contribution of genetic liability, educational attainment (EA), and their overlap and interaction in lifetime smoking. We conducted genome-wide association studies (GWASs) in UK Biobank (N = 394,718) and the Netherlands Mental Health Survey and Incidence Study-2 (NEMESIS-2, N = 3090)

SCORE is a randomized method of moments estimator of genetic correlation. It achieves a 44% reduction in standard error relative to LD-score regression (LDSC) SCORE identifies significant genetic correlation between 200 additional pairs of traits over LDSC.

Mitochondrial DNA copy number (mtDNA-CN) measured from blood specimens is a minimally invasive marker of mitochondrial function. To identify genes involved in regulating mitochondrial function, we performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in 465,809 White individuals from the Cohorts for Heart and Aging Research in Genomic Epidemiology (CHARGE) consortium and the UK Biobank.

An Amish-enriched missense variant (p.Asn352Ser) in a functional domain of beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase 1 (B4GALT1) was associated with lower LDL-C and fibrinogen levels. The mutant protein had 50% lower galacto-transferase activity compared with the wild-type protein.

Previous cohort studies have investigated the relationship between self-reported physical activity (PA) and dementia. This study aimed to explore the association of device-measured PA with the risk of dementia incidence and common subtypes (Alzheimer's disease [AD] and vascular dementia) using the UK Biobank study.

Patients with psoriasis are at high risk of developing a chronic arthritis known as psoriatic arthritis (PsA) The prevalence of PsA in this patient group can be up to 30% and the identification of high risk patients represents an important clinical research.

Most genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of complex traits are performed using models with additive allelic effects. Additive models can miss loci with recessive effects, thereby leaving potentially important genes undiscovered. We conducted the largest GWAS meta-analysis using a recessive model for type 2 diabetes. We identified 51 loci associated with the disease, including five variants undetected by prior additive analyses.

This study examined sleep and its cognitive and affective correlates in adults with and without autism spectrum disorder (ASD) There were no group differences in subjective sleep duration. Sleep efficiency was associated with wellbeing and mental health.

Migraine represents one of the most prevalent neurological conditions worldwide. It is a disabling condition with high impact on the working situation of migraineurs. Gender-related differences regarding an association of migraine with important occupational characteristics has been hardly studied.

 ANGSD-asso's latent model models the unobserved genotype as a latent variable in a generalized linear model framework. The software is implemented in C/C++ and can be run multi-threaded. In scenarios with sequencing depth and phenotype correlation, the latent model has higher statistical power and less bias than using dosages.

People with severe mental illness (SMI) experience large disparities in physical health. People with schizophrenia/psychosis, BD and MDD have higher risks of COVID-19 infection, hospitalisation and mortality. Vaccination and preventive measures should be prioritised.

Epidemiological studies have repeatedly observed a markedly higher risk for coronary artery disease (CAD) in Scotland as compared to England. It is unclear whether environmental or genetic factors might explain this phenomenon. We assessed CAD risk, based on the Framingham risk score (FRS) and common genetic variants.

We identified six proteins to have causal effects on any of 11 inflammatory diseases. IL-12B protects against psoriasis and psoriatic arthropathy, LAP-TGF-&#946;-1 protects against osteoarthritis, TWEAK protects against asthma, VEGF-A protects against ulcerative colitis. In contrast, IL-18R1 increases the risk of developing allergy, hay fever, and eczema.

Gut dysmotility is associated with constipation, diarrhea, and functional gastrointestinal disorders like irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) We studied stool frequency as a proxy for gut motility in a GWAS meta-analysis including 167,875 individuals from UK Biobank. We identify 14 loci associated with stool frequency (p &#8804; 5.0 × 10 -8 ).

Genetic and lifestyle factors are related to thyroid cancer (TC) Whether a healthy lifestyle is associated with TC and could attenuate the influence of genetic variants in TC remains equivocal. A prospective cohort study using UK Biobank data recruited 502 505 participants aged 40 to 69 years between March 13, 2006, and October 1, 2010. During a median follow-up of 11.1 (IQR, 10.33-11.75) years, 423 incident TCs were ascertained (14.66 per 100 000 person-years)

Between 2006 and 2010, adults without prior stroke at recruitment in England, Scotland, and Wales were recruited into the UK Biobank prospective cohort study. Data were analyzed from September 2021 to September 2022. After mutual adjustment for waist circumference, BMI had no independent association with ischemic stroke but was inversely associated with intracerebral hemorrhage and subarachnoid hemorrhage.

Study included 407,128 individuals (mean age 56.26 years) from the UK Biobank. Severe sleep apnoea was defined as hospital admission. Moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) was measured from frequency per week and duration per day.

It is uncertain whether typical variants causing monogenic stroke are associated with cerebrovascular disease in the general population. This cohort study is a multicenter population-based study of data from UK Biobank participants recruited in 2006 through 2010. NOTCH3, HTRA1, and COL4A1/2 pathogenic variants in monogenic. stroke; Framingham cardiovascular risk; and ischemic stroke polygenic risk.

Human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) lines are a powerful tool for studying development and disease. The considerable phenotypic variation between lines makes it challenging to replicate key findings and integrate data across research groups.

Study included 176,570 adults in UK Biobank who were initially free of CVD. 9,963 total CVD events, 6,993 ischemic heart disease (IHD) cases, 2,007 stroke cases, and 2,269 heart failure cases were documented. Lower frequency of adding salt to foods was significantly associated with lower risk of total CVA.

 fMRI models of systems-level brain patterns may help improve our ability to link genes, brains, and behavior by identifying reliable and reproducible endophenotypes. If such models capture activity in inherited brain systems, they may offer a more powerful link between genes and behavior.

Previous studies on alcohol drinking and health largely have ignored the potential impact of the timing of drinking. In current drinkers, moderate drinking of alcohol, especially wine, with meals is associated with a lower risk of T2D. Drinking more wine, rather than other alcoholic beverages, was related to lower concentrations of C-reactive protein.

Resting-state networks (RSNs) have been thought to reflect the brain's intrinsic functional organization. Intersubject variability in the networks' spontaneous fluctuations may be associated with individuals' clinical, physiological, cognitive, and genetic traits.

Deep learning framework developed to identify reticular pseudodrusen (RPD) and drusen on optical coherence tomography (OCT) scans. Data were obtained from 1284 participants in the UK Biobank with a self-reported diagnosis of age-related macular degeneration (AMD)

Long-term exposure to air pollution is known to be adversely associated with a broad range of single non-communicable diseases. We aimed to assess associations between long-term air pollution exposure and multimorbidity status, severity, and patterns using the UK Biobank cohort. Higher exposures to PM 2.5 , and NO 2 were associated with multi-organ conditions.

Coffee and tea intake might be associated with psychiatry diseases. However, it is unclear whether the effect of coffee/tea on anxiety and depression depending on the different types of proteins. This was a cross-sectional study.

Severe mental illnesses (SMIs) are often associated with compromised brain health, physical comorbidities, and cognitive deficits. We tested the hypothesis that these impairments can be observed in non-psychiatric individuals with SMI-like brain patterns of deviation. 22,883 participants free of common neuropsychiatric conditions from the UK Biobank were split into discovery and replication samples. Cluster analysis revealed five clusters with distinct RVI profiles.

UK Biobank participants with data on intraocular pressure (IOP), OCT-derived macular inner retinal layer thickness measures, and glaucoma status. Participants were categorized according to self-reported drinking behaviors. Compared with infrequent drinkers, regular drinkers had higher IOP (+0.17 mmHg; P  interaction)

The mutational spectrum of asthma and allergy associated genes is not known. We conducted a secondary analysis of exome data from 281,104 UK Biobank samples. 354 VOI were significantly associated with asthma, allergic rhinitis and atopic dermatitis.

Long-term exposures to air pollution is associated with increased risk of lung cancer. This effect was modified by lifestyle or genetic risk. Integrated interventions for environmental pollution by government and adherence to healthy lifestyle by individuals are advocated for lung cancer prevention.

CounterSynth is a conditional generative model of diffeomorphic deformations that induce label-driven, biologically plausible changes in volumetric brain images. The model is intended to synthesise counterfactual training data augmentations for downstream discriminative modelling tasks.

The incidence of kidney failure is known to increase with age. We investigated the association of retinal age gap (the difference between retinal. age and chronological age) with future risk of kidneys failure. Each 1-year greater retinal Age Gap at baseline was independently associated with a 10% increase in the risk of incident kidney failure.

POPDx (Population-based Objective Phenotyping by Deep Extrapolation) is a bilinear machine learning framework for simultaneously estimating the probabilities of 1538 phenotype codes. We extracted phenotypic and health-related information of 392 246 individuals from the UK Biobank.

Non-random selection of analytic subsamples could introduce selection bias in observational studies. We explored the potential presence and impact of selection in studies of SARS-CoV-2 infection and COVID-19 prognosis. We found non-negligible bias in many simulated scenarios.

 genome-wide association study (GWAS) for coronary artery disease (CAD) comprising 181,522 cases among 1,165,690 participants of predominantly European ancestry. We prioritized 220 candidate causal genes, combining eight complementary approaches. Using CRISPR-Cas9, we experimentally validated the effect of an enhancer in MYO9B, which appears to mediate CAD risk by regulating vascular cell motility.

We investigated the causality of IL-8 on carotid intima-media thickness (c-IMT), a measure of sub-clinical atherosclerosis. In IMPROVE, each unit increase in plasmaIL-8 was associated with an increase in median c-IMt measures. Our results indicate that genetic variants associated with plasma IL- 8 also associate with c- IMT.

Evidence from rodents indicated that after recent stress, reduced expression of tight junction protein claudin-5 may weaken the blood-brain barrier. Our aims were to prove this pathomechanism in humans. We used a large population genetic database to test whether variation in the CLDN5 gene could modulate effects of the IL6 gene variant.

Tobacco smoking is a risk factor for impaired brain function, but its causal effect on white matter brain aging remains unclear. This study aimed to measure the causal effect of tobacco smoking on whitematter brain aging. Study cohort included 23 624 subjects with a mean age of 54.18 years.

UK Biobank cohort included 372,530 participants aged 37-73 years at baseline (2006-2010) with follow-up until September 2021. Incident CMDs cases were identified based on self-reported information and multiple health-related records. PM 2.5 showed the strongest associations with all transitions from healthy to FCMD, to CMM, and then to death.

Tobacco and alcohol use are heritable behaviours associated with 15% and 5.3% of worldwide deaths. These substances are used across the globe, yet genome-wide association studies have focused largely on individuals of European ancestries. We leveraged global genetic diversity across 3.4 million individuals from four major clines of global ancestry (approximately 21% non-European) to power the discovery and fine-mapping of genomic loci associated with tobacco and alcohol.

We reviewed published papers on associations of genes and bladder cancer risk. We then performed a confirmation study of these genes in a large population-based cohort. We identified nine genes that were significantly associated with bladder cancer. Three genes were also known to be associated with hereditary breast cancer.

Multimorbidity (the presence of two or more long-term conditions [LTCs] was suggested to exacerbate the neuronal injuries. We aimed to investigate the association between multimorbidy and dementia risk. We used the prospective data from 245,483 UK Biobank participants during a 9-year follow-up.

Among 200,629 UK Biobank participants with whole-exome sequencing, CH was identified in a nested case-control study of 832 incident lung cancer cases and 3,951 controls. In parallel, we compared CH frequency in published data from 5,003 patients with solid tumor (2,279 lung cancer) who had pretreatment blood sequencing performed through Memorial Sloan Kettering-Integrated Mutation Profiling of Actionable Cancer Targets.

Study included 483,316 participants without heart failure and cardiovascular disease from the UK Biobank study. After adjustment for BMI and other confounding factors, each 1-standard deviation increase in LFI was associated with a 21% lower heart failure risk.

We included 18,062 adults (mean age 59.4 +/- 7.2 years, 37.4% female) with T2D at baseline in the UK Biobank. DMC, defined as diabetic nephropathy, diabetic neuropathy, or diabetic retinopathy, was identified using hospital inpatient records and death registries. Both pre-frailty and frailty were significantly associated with increased risk of overall DMC.

We examined the association of VILPA with all-cause, cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cancer mortality in 25,241 nonexercisers in the UK Biobank. Compared with participants who engaged in no VilPA, participants who had 3 bouts per day showed a 38%-40% reduction in mortality risk.

Loneliness was associated with a nearly 60% increased risk of all-cause dementia. In cause-specific analyses, loneliness was a stronger predictor of vascular dementia than AD. Loneliness was also a strong predictor of frontotemporal dementia (FTD)

Prostate cancer (PCa) is highly heritable. No validated PCa risk model currently exists. We developed a risk model using a kin-cohort of 16,633 PCa families. The model was externally validated in 170,850 unaffected men.

The large-scale open access whole-exome sequencing (WES) data of the UK Biobank is accelerating a new wave of genetic association studies. We proposed to merge the WES genotypes and the genome-wide genotyping (GWAS) genotypes of 167,000 UKB homogeneous European participants into a combined reference panel. We then used the imputed data to replicate association identified in the discovery WES sample.

Mendelian randomization was used to assess the relationship of MFA and percent body fat with whole-body, lumbar spine, femoral neck, and forearm aBMD. In all MR analyses, genetically predicted MFA was inversely associated with a BMD for the whole body. This negative relationship was strongest in older individuals and did not differ by sex.

446 772 participants in the UK Biobank (UKB) prospective cohort study were included. Per 1 standard deviation (5 years) increase in educational level was associated with a 12% lower risk of lung cancer. Education years were negatively correlated with smoking, but positively correlated with healthy diet score. Analysis of mediating effect indicated that the association of educational level with lung cancer risk was mediated by smoking and healthy diet.

A total of 239,745 participants from UK Biobank were studied. 3531 incident cases of all-cause dementia (ACD), 1729 cases of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and 925 cases of vascular dementia (VD) were identified. Several vascular risk factors (physical activity, current smoking status, and glycemic status) were found to be significantly related to dementia risk.

In biomedical science, analyzing treatment effect heterogeneity plays an essential role in assisting personalized medicine. Conventional approaches often evaluate the subgroup treatment effects via parametric modeling. We aim to efficiently evaluate the heterogeneous treatment effects of multiple subgroups simultaneously under the one-step targeted maximum-likelihood estimation (TMLE) framework.

Study aimed to identify novel genetic factors that contribute to body surface area. Based on more than 330,000 European individuals in the UK Biobank. First large-scale genome-wide association study for BSA was performed.

Study aimed to determine the independent effects of obesity and dynapenia on falls risk, areal bone mineral density, and fracture risk (lower extremity or all other fractures) A total of 16,147 women (aged 60-82 years) from the UK Biobank were categorized by handgrip strength and body weight.

Study of 254,997 adults in the United Kingdom found an association of high birthweight with the incidence of gastrointestinal cancer. Such association was remarkably observed in pancreatic cancer. Benefits would be obtained from birthweight control, particularly for individuals with a high genetic risk.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is not only a chronic inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal tract but also accompanied by systemic inflammation. Relationship between IBD and hypertension has not been investigated. We retrieved IBD onset and the incidence of hypertension from the UK Biobank.

When present in coding regions, tandem repeats (TRs) may have large effects on protein structure and function contributing to health and disease. We use a family-based design to identify de novo TRs and assess their impact at the population level in 148,607 European ancestry participants.

Systematic COronary Risk Evaluation (SCORE2) risk algorithm is suitable for the prediction of incident dementia and all-cause mortality. Whether its discrimination abilities are higher than those of the SCORE and Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Aging, and Dementia (CAIDE) risk algorithms are unclear.

Evaluation of the feasibility of using cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) radiomics in the prediction of incident atrial fibrillation (AF), heart failure (HF), myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke. We identified participants from the UK Biobank who experienced incident AF, HF, MI, or stroke during the continuous longitudinal follow-up.

Study included 366,566 participants (aged 40-69 years) without baseline CVD from the UK biobank during 2006 to 2010. Compared with no VPA, 0%-30% of VPA to MVPA was associated with 12% and 19% lower risks of incident CVD and all-cause mortality.

Alzheimer's disease is marked by intracellular tau aggregates in the medial temporal lobe (MTL) and extracellular amyloid aggregation in the default network (DN) We examined codependent structural variations between the MTL's most vulnerable structure, the hippocampus (HC), and the DN in individuals with Alzheimer's disease and related dementia (ADRD)

Previous studies have shown certain exposure factors are associated with colorectal cancer (CRC) events. This study included 335,370 individuals in the UK Biobank. Five domains were extracted from 12 variables including ecosystem, lifestyle, tobacco and alcohol use, social economics, and social support.

Despite availability of gene expression and epigenomic datasets, few variant-to-gene links have emerged. Results contradict the hypothesis that most complex trait-associated variants coincide with homeostatic expression QTLs. The field must confront this deficit and pursue this 'missing regulation'

Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) is a debilitating chronic disease that lacks known pathogenesis, distinctive diagnostic criteria, and effective treatment options. Understanding the genetic (and other) risk factors associated with the disease would begin to help to alleviate some of these issues.

Life's Essential 8 (LE8) score and the incidence of four cardiovascular outcomes (ischemic heart disease, myocardial infarction, stroke, and heart failure) in UK Biobank. 250,825 participants were included in this prospective study. Compared to individuals in the highest quartile of the score, those in the lowest quartile (least healthy) had 2.07 (95% CI: 1.99; 2.16) higher risk for MACE.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a heritable metabolic disorder. While population studies have identified hundreds of common genetic variants associated with T2D, the role of rare (frequency GCK ,  GIGYF1 ,  HNF1A ) in addition to missense variants in ZEB2 and MLXIPL remains unclear.

Shift work at baseline was associated with an increased risk of all-cause dementia. Among shift workers, there was no significant association between night shift work and the risk of dementia. The increased incidence of dementia did not differ between participants in different genetic risk strata for dementia.

Light is the primary stimulus for synchronizing the circadian clock in humans. Little is currently known about the genetic basis for these interindividual differences. This study is the first to assess light as an important exposure in the genomics of chronotype.

Soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR) is an immune-derived mediator of kidney disease, levels of which are strongly associated with cardiovascular outcomes. We found serum suPAR levels to be predictive of coronary artery calcification and cardiovascular events.

There is growing evidence that a polygenic burden significantly modulates LDL-cholesterol (LDL-c) concentrations. Several LDL-c polygenic risk scores (PRS) have been set up. We set up new PRS based on our routine panel for sequencing and compared their diagnostic performance with previously-published PRS. Between all PRS, the 165-SNP PRS showed the best LDL- c explained variance and the best diagnosis abilities.

High dietary calcium consumption is associated with lower colorectal cancer (CRC) risk. However, little data are available on the association between circulating calcium concentrations and CRC risk. This study used data from 2 large European prospective cohort studies.

Study investigated the influence of dietary factors on the risk of incident non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), cirrhosis, and liver cancer. Data from the UK Biobank database were analyzed (n = 372,492) Participants in the high tertile of prudent scores had a 15% (95%CI = 0.75-0.96) lower risk of Cirrhosis. The higher consumption of red meat and the lower consumption of fruit, cereal, tea, and dietary fiber were significantly associated with a higher risk of NAFLD.

The UK Biobank (UKBB) and German National Cohort (NAKO) are among the largest cohort studies. The purpose of this study was to demonstrate how MRI data from these large-scale studies can be jointly analyzed. Cross-study analysis on harmonized data revealed comprehensive quantitative models for the phenotypic variation of abdominal organs.

Despite its association with severe health conditions, the etiology of sleep apnea (SA) remains understudied. This study sought to identify genetic variants robustly associated with SA risk. After adjustment for BMI, only one genome-wide significant variant was identified.

Many ultraprocessed food (UPF)-derived by-products may play a role in the development of chronic kidney disease (CKD) Although several studies have assessed the association of UPFs with kidney function decline or CKD in various countries, no evidence has been shown in China and the United Kingdom. Study aims to evaluate the association between UPF consumption and risk of CKD.

Age-related muscle dysfunction and sarcopenia are major causes of physical incapacitation in older adults and currently lack viable treatment strategies. Inhibition of sphingolipid synthesis confers increased myogenic potential and promotes protein synthesis.

The UK Biobank provides a rich collection of longitudinal clinical data coming from different healthcare providers and sources in England, Wales, and Scotland. To make these data useful to a research community, data cleaning, curation, and standardization are needed.

An increasing number of studies harness resting-state fMRI functional connectivity analysis to investigate the neurobiological mechanisms of insomnia. The results to date are inconsistent and the detection of minor and widely distributed alterations in functional connectivity requires large sample sizes. The present study investigated associations between insomnia symptoms and resting- state functional connectivity at the whole-brain level in the largest sample to date.

Cysteine-altering missense variants (NOTCH3cys) in one of the 34 epidermal growth-factor-like repeat (EGFr) domains of the NOTCH3 protein are the cause of notCH3-associated small vessel disease. The strongest known NOT CH3-SVD modifier is NOTCH2cys variant position. NotCH3Cys variants located in EGFr domains 1-6 are associated with a more severe phenotype than those located in domains 7-34. The clinical relevance of this new three-tiered EGFr risk classification was cross-sectionally validated using SVD imaging markers and clinical outcomes.

Mitochondrial DNA dysfunction has been implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases. We aimed to investigate the associations between leukocyte mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) abundance, as a proxy of mitochondrial function, and coronary artery disease (CAD) and heart failure (HF) in a cohort study.

Binary diagnosis of coronary artery disease does not preserve the complexity of disease or quantify its severity or its associated risk with death. We evaluated a quantitative marker of coronary arteries disease derived from probabilities of a machine learning model. We measured the association of ISCAD with clinical outcomes.

Habitual fish oil use was associated with a significantly lower hazard of incident CKD. Consistently, participants reporting. &#8805;2 servings/week of oily fish (HR, 0.86; 95% CI,. 0.79-0.94) and nonoily fish ( HR, 0,86; 0.77-0,97) consumption had a lower hazard.

White matter hyperintensities were automatically segmented and quantified in the UK Biobank dataset (N = 18,294) Generalised linear models were applied to examine the main effects of vascular and hormonal factors. In men with testosterone levels one standard deviation higher than the mean value, smoking was associated with 27.8% higher white matterHyperintensity volumes in the whole brain. In women with a shorter post-menopause duration, diabetes and higher pulse wave velocity were associated with 28.8%. These findings highlighted the importance of considering hormonal risk factors.

A high adherence to the Mediterranean-Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension Diet Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay (MIND) has been associated with better cognition and a lower risk of dementia. We measured adherence to MIND and its association with cognitive health in the UK Biobank (UKB) MIND score derived from 24 h diet recall questionnaires for 120,661 participants.

Asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are two distinct diseases. They share common features in terms of their advanced stages and genetic factors. This study aimed to identify novel genes underlying both asthma and COPD using genome-wide association study (GWAS) to differentiate between the two diseases.

Genotype-by-environment interaction (GEI or GxE) plays an important role in understanding complex human traits. It is usually challenging to detect GEI signals efficiently and accurately while adjusting for population stratification and sample relatedness in large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) We propose a fast and powerful linear mixed model-based approach, fastGWA-GE, to test for GEI effect and G+GxE joint effect.

More than 40% of individuals will develop osteoarthritis during their lifetime. There are currently no licensed disease-modifying treatments for this disabling condition. Common polymorphic variants in ALDH1A2 are associated with severe hand OA.

There is an increasing expectation that advanced, computationally expensive machine learning (ML) techniques will help to uncover key differences in the human brain in health and disease. We take a comprehensive approach to explore how multiple aspects of brain structural connectivity can predict sex, age, general cognitive function and general psychopathology. We modelled N = 8183 structural connectomes from UK Biobank.

Vestibular schwannomas are benign nerve sheath tumours that arise on the vestibulocochlear nerves. The majority of vestibularschwannoma present sporadically without identification of germline pathogenic variants. One risk locus reached genome-wide significance in our association analysis (9p21.3)

Multiple Sclerosis (MS) has been linked to a variety of environmental risk factors, including smoking, Epstein-Barr Virus infection, and childhood obesity. There is some evidence to support a relationship between alcohol consumption and MS risk, but this finding has been inconsistent across cohorts. We analysed data from 2100 individuals with MS and 407,128 controls.

Elevated blood C-reactive protein (CRP) further increases the risk of AD for people carrying the APOE &#949;4 allele. We found that for higher concentrations of serum CRP, the AD risk increased for SNP genotypes in 3 AD-associated genes (SPI1, CD33, and CLU)

Morroniside, derived from medicinal herb Cornus officinalis, possesses anti-inflammatory effect. Denervation increased TNF&#945; in atrophying skeletal muscles, which inhibited myotube formation in vitro. Morronisideside treatment rescued T NF&# 945;-inducedMyotube atrophy in vitro and impeded skeletal muscle atrophy  in vivo.

 Meta-analysis of whole genome sequencing/whole exome sequencing (WGS/WES) studies provides an attractive solution to the problem of collecting large sample sizes for discovering rare variants associated with complex phenotypes. Existing rare variant meta-analysis approaches are not scalable to biobank-scale WGS data.

Vitamin D deficiency is more common among African-ancestry individuals and may be associated with adverse health outcomes. Vitamin D binding protein (VDBP) regulates concentrations of biologically active vitamin D. We conducted genome-wide association study (GWAS) of VDBP and 25-hydroxyvitamin D.

Exposure to outdoor light at night may cause circadian disruption, which may disturb sleep quality and lead to incident type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) Study followed 283,374 persons from 2006 through 2020. Participants who lived in the highest quarter of outdoor LAN area were more likely to develop T2DM.

A large proportion of Leber hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) family members who carry a mitochondrial risk variant never lose vision. Mitochondrial variants, including m.14484T>C and m.11778G>A, have been added to gene arrays, and thus many patients and research participants are tested for LHON mutations.

Exome array analysis on 106,101 SNPs for 9721 ischemic stroke cases from the SiGN Consortium. 12 of the remaining 13 variants were extremely rare in European Caucasians. Power to replicate was very low given the low allele frequencies of the associated variants.

Adverse muscle composition (MC) has previously been linked to poor functional performance and comorbidities in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) In this study we aimed to investigate associations of all-cause mortality with liver fat, NAFLD, and MC in the UK Biobank imaging study. Magnetic resonance images of 40,174 participants were analyzed for liver proton density fat fraction (PDFF) and thigh fat-free muscle volume (FFMV) z-score.

Men of African ancestry (AA) have the highest mortality rate from prostate cancer (PCa) relatively little is known about the germline variants that are associated with PCa risk in AA men. The goal of this study is to systematically evaluate rare, recurrent nonsynonymous variants across the exome. Whole exome sequencing (WES) of germline DNA was performed.

Frailty is a public health problem for ageing society. Evidence is lacking regarding its impact on intestinal functions. We aimed to examine prospective relationships of frailty and pre-frailty in middle-aged and older adults with incident irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)

Study explored the mechanisms of the interaction between diet and gut microbiome on the risk of neuroticism. The neuroticism score was calculated by 12 questions from the Eysenck Personality Inventory Neuroticism scale. Protein vs. Bifidobacterium and fat vs. Clostridia were negatively associated with neuroticism in fruit types.

Winner's curse can affect Mendelian randomization estimates, but its severity and potential impact are unclear. We randomly divided a UK Biobank data set 100 times into three equally sized subsets. The first subset was treated as the 'discovery GWAS' We compared genetic associations estimated in the discovery GWAS to those estimated in each of the 100 iterations.

Step-by-step software implementation of a graph-embedded topic model. Data preprocessing, graph learning, topic inference, and phenotype prediction. As a demonstration, we use simulated data that mimic the UK Biobank data.

The level of cartilage acidic protein 1 (CRTAC1) in plasma was recently discovered to be associated with osteoarthritis (OA) risk and progression to joint replacement in Iceland. 1,462 plasma proteins were measured in 54,265 participants from the UK Biobank on the Olink Explore platform.

The 10-year Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease risk score is the standard approach to predict risk of incident cardiovascular events. Recently, addition of coronary artery disease (CAD) polygenic scores has been evaluated. Age and sex strongly predict the risk of CAD, their interaction with genetic risk prediction has not been systematically examined.

The study analyzed serum GGT concentration at baseline of 421,032 participants recruited in the UK Biobank since 2006 through 2010. The study identified 586 cases of pancreatic cancer over a median follow-up period of 7.16 years. In the multivariable-adjusted Cox model, the highest GGT level was associated with 14% higher pancreatic Cancer risk.

Absence of a dicrotic notch on finger photoplethysmography is an easily ascertainable and inexpensive trait. Little is known about its genetic underpinnings or prognostic value for incident cardiovascular disease. We created a novel continuous trait reflecting notch smoothness using machine learning. Notch smoothness stratified risk of myocardial infarction or coronary artery disease, stroke, heart failure, and aortic stenosis.

This study aimed to examine the associations between subjective well-being (SWB) and risk of all-cause dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD), and vascular dementia (VD) We adopted a multidimensional approach to SWB that included the level and breadth of SWB. General happiness, health and family satisfaction, and satisfaction breadth (satisfaction in multiple domains) were associated with lower risk of dementia.

Men who received androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) for prostate cancer had a higher risk of dementia and/or Alzheimer disease (AD) than men who did not receive ADT. The effect was more pronounced when ADT was given for more than 12 months.

Abdominal hernias are common and characterised by the abnormal protrusion of a viscus through the wall of the abdominal cavity. The global incidence is 18.5 million annually and there are limited non-surgical treatments. To improve understanding of common hernia aetiopathology, we performed a six-stage genome-wide association study.

Artificial intelligence (AI)-based approaches can now use electrocardiograms (ECGs) to provide expert-level performance in detecting heart abnormalities and diagnosing disease. Patient age predicted from ECGs by AI models has shown great potential as a biomarker for cardiovascular age. Recent work has found its deviation from chronological age ("delta age") to be associated with mortality.

 summary statistics from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have facilitated the development of various summary data-based methods. Analyses using these methods may be biased by errors in GWAS summary data or LD reference or heterogeneity between GWAS and LD reference. Here we propose a quality control method, DENTIST, that leverages LD among genetic variants to detect and eliminate errors. Through simulations, we demonstrate that DentIST substantially reduces false-positive rate in detecting secondary signals.

Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is characterized by progressive cyst formation/expansion. PKD1 and PKD2 are the common loci and GANAB, DNAJB11, and ALG9 are minor genes. We identified monoallelic IFT140 loss-of-function (LoF) variants in 12 multiplex families and 26 singletons.

We constructed polygenic risk scores (PRS) for 16 cancers using risk variants identified by genome-wide association studies. We evaluated the associations of these PRSs with breast cancer risk using Breast Cancer Association Consortium data. A 5%-8% significantly elevated risk of overall breast cancer was associated with per unit increase of the PRS for glioma and cancers of the corpus uteri, stomach, or colorectum. Our study provides strong evidence for shared genetic susceptibility of breast cancer with several other cancers.

Primary care EHR data are often of clinical importance to cohort studies. Challenges include determining the periods during which Ehr data were collected. We developed methodology to infer continuous periods of data collection and maximize follow-up in longitudinal studies.

APOE &#949;4 has been associated with lower levels of blood CRP in middle-aged and older populations. Few studies have investigated this intriguing relation and its impact on neurological markers for AD in younger ages, nor across the whole lifespan.

Sulcal depth is a robust yet understudied measure of localized folding. Sulcal depth has higher locus yield, heritability, and effective sample size. There was a large amount of genetic overlap between these traits.

One third of patients with chronic polyneuropathy have no obvious underlying etiology. We performed genome-wide association studies using genetic data from two large population-based health studies. No replicable risk loci were identified in the discovery-replication stage, in line with the limited predicted power of this approach.

Age and sex associated with changes in the functional brain network topology and cognition in large population of older adults have been poorly understood. We examined differences in 11 resting-state graph theory measures with respect to age, sex, and their relationships with cognitive performance in 17,127 United Kingdom Biobank participants. Age was associated with an overall decrease in the effectiveness of network communication.

Language is a unique trait of the human species, of which the genetic architecture remains largely unknown. Neuroimaging has significantly contributed to the understanding of structural and functional aspects of language in the human brain. Twenty genomic loci were found associated with language FCs, out of which three were replicated.

Study examined six lifestyle factors with T2DM cases among hypertension (227,966) and normotension (203,005) Low-risk lifestyle factors were defined as standard body mass index (BMI), drinking alcohol in moderation, nonsmoking, engaging in moderate- to vigorous-intensity physical activity, and maintaining a healthy sleep pattern.

Bayesian PRS methods can estimate the variance of an individual's PRS and can yield well-calibrated credible intervals via posterior sampling. For 13 real traits in the UK Biobank (n = 291,273 unrelated 'white British'), we observe large variances in individual PRS estimates which impact interpretation of PRS-based stratification.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most prevalent liver disease worldwide. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is leading cause of mortality among patients with NAFLD. We developed a machine learning algorithm integrating clinical, lifestyle, and genetic risk factors to identify CVD.

Anti-inflammatory approaches targeting interleukin (IL)-6 signaling can reduce cardiovascular risk. It remains unknown whether targeting IL-6 signaling could reduce risk additively to low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering. Here, we assess interactions in associations of genetic downregulation of IL-8 signaling and LDL-C lowering with lifetime cardiovascular disease risk.

Mendelian Randomization study was conducted in European-ethnicity individuals from the UK Biobank population. Analyses were performed using data of 22,313 CAD cases and 407,920 controls. Causal determinants for primary CAD are age dependent with classical CAD risk factors attenuating in relation with primary CAD.

Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) radiomics analysis provides multiple quantifiers of ventricular shape and myocardial texture. We studied variation in CMR radiomics phenotypes by age and sex in healthy UK Biobank participants. Then, we examined independent associations of classical vascular risk factors (VRFs: smoking, diabetes, hypertension, high cholesterol) with C MR radiomics features.

The age of menopause is associated with fertility and disease risk. We use whole-exome sequences from 132,370 women in the UK Biobank to test for associations. Rare damaging variants in five genes are significantly associated with menopera.

We conducted a Mendelian randomization study to examine the associations of selenium levels with 22 site-specific cancers and any cancer. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) strongly associated with toenail and blood (TAB) and blood selenum levels in mild linkage disequilibrium.

Inflammation has previously been linked with depression and has more recently been suggested as a possible link to anxiety aetiology. The objectives of this study are to assess the relationship between different anxiety/stress-related disorders and inflammation (measured by C-reactive protein) and to determine whether any relationship is explained by depressive symptoms and other social and health-related factors.

Neuroimaging data is comparably homogeneous due to the uniform structure of the brain. By learning filters in individual latent space patches without sharing weights, PIF layers can learn abstract features faster and specific to regions. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study that introduces a prior in form of an inductive bias.

N-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFAs) prevented non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in studies of mouse models. We examined relationships between fish oil use and risk of primary liver cancer and the major histological subtypes.

Peripheral inflammation was inversely associated with grey matter volume and white matter volume. Brain atrophy mediated the inflammation-cognitive decline relationship, accounting for 15-29% of the overall impact.

Few research exists on the mediating effect of brain structure in the association between dietary inflammatory index (DII) and cognitive impairment. This analysis utilized data from a cohort of 15,526 participants in the UK Biobank who underwent brain magnetic resonance imaging during 2014-2020.

Aging is a major risk factor for cardiovascular and neurodegenerative disorders. Changes in functional connectivity between and within resting-state functional networks have been associated with cognitive decline. There is no consensus on the impact of sex on these age-related functional trajectories.

Platelet count (PLT) is associated positively with lung cancer risk. PLT has a more complex association with body mass index (BMI), positive only in women (mainly never smokers) and inverse in men. We examined the associations of PLT, mean platelet volume (MPV), and platelet distribution width (PDW) with Lung cancer risk in UK Biobank men and women.

Pancreatitis may associate with an increased risk of pancreatic cancer. The older the age of pancreatitis, the higher the risk of the disease. The risk of Pancreatic cancer increases significantly in the first 3 years of the course of the pancreatitis.

UK Biobank cohort study includes more than 500,000 participants aged 40 to 69 across the United Kingdom from 2006 to 2010. Incident sleep apnea was ascertained by hospital inpatient records, death registries, primary care, and self-reported diagnosis. Compared to participants who never/rarely added salt to foods, those who sometimes, usually, and always added Salt to foods had an 11% (hazard ratio [HR] 1.11, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.04 to 1.17) and 24% (HR 1.24, 95's CI: 1.12 to1.37) higher risk.

Deep learning models are increasingly being used in detecting patterns and correlations in medical imaging data such as magnetic resonance imaging. In the presence of confounders, spurious correlations between data, imaging process, content, and output can occur that allow the network to learn shortcuts instead of the desired causal relationship.

Patients with prevalent diabetes were included from 5 prospective, population-based cohorts in China, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Healthy lifestyle scores were constructed according to non-current smoking, low to moderate alcohol drinking, regular physical activity, healthy diet, and optimal body weight.

Study included 155,235 postmenopausal women (of which 6146 with BCa) from UK Biobank. Cancer diagnoses were ascertained through the linkage to the UK National Health Service Central Registers. Compared to women with low exposure, women with higher 2007 PM10 and cumulative average PM10 had greater BCa risk.

C cohort study was based on the UK Biobank. Baseline survey was conducted from 2006 to 2010. Residential distance to major roadways was ascertained residential address postcode. Compared with individuals living >1,000 m from major traffic roads, living &#8804;1,00 m was associated with a 13% to 14% higher dementia risk.

Fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF-23) is associated with a range of cardiovascular and noncardiovascular diseases. Mendelian randomization approaches can help control for such confounding. Data from 337,448 UK Biobank participants were used to estimate associations.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients rank among the highest levels of comorbidities compared to persons with other diseases. It is unclear whether the conditions are caused by shared pathophysiology due to the genetic pleiotropy for AD risk genes.

A common approach for gene-based tests is to combine SNPs associations by computing the sum of &#967; 2 statistics. This strategy ignores the directions of SNP effects, which could result in a loss of power for SNPs with masking effects. Here, we introduce "mBAT-combo," a set-based test that is better powered than other methods to detect multi-SNP associations.

Groups of distantly related individuals who share a short segment of their genome identical-by-descent (IBD) can provide insights about rare traits and diseases in massive biobanks. Clustering algorithms play an important role in finding these groups accurately and at scale. We set out to analyze the fitness of commonly used, fast and scalable clustering algorithms for IBD mapping applications.

Reliability calculated between left and right heels was relatively poor and so was criterion validity assessed relative to dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Low to modest correlations (r = 0.29 to 0.44) were obtained between multiple QUS variables and DXA BMD. sensitivity identified as very poor for osteoporosis, and poor (0.37 to.62) for osteopenia diagnoses.

Genome-wide polygenic risk scores (PRS) have shown high specificity and sensitivity in predicting type 2 diabetes (T2D) risk in Europeans. However, the PRS-driven information and its clinical significance in non-Europeans are underrepresented. We examined the predictive efficacy and transferability of PRS models.

Self-reported health information could increase CKD awareness, identify modifiable lifestyle risk factors, and prevent disease. We developed and validated a survey-based prediction equation to identify individuals at risk for incident CKD.

Fluid intelligence is a cognitive domain that encompasses general reasoning, pattern recognition, and problem-solving abilities independent of task-specific experience. Understanding its genetic and neural underpinnings is critical yet challenging for predicting human development, lifelong health, and well-being.

 Neurobiological correlates of resilience to stress or trauma have not been investigated extensively. Study included 12,516 participants from the UK Biobank to investigate white matter connectivity in resilience in 13 selected regions of interest (ROIs)

Prostate cancer (PrCa) is the second most prevalent malignancy in men worldwide. Studies have linked the use of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c) lowering therapies with reduced risk of PrCa.

We included 497,401 UK Biobank participants (mean age = 56.5 years) without dementia at baseline (2006-2010) and followed them until March 2021. Cox proportional hazard models were used to estimate the age- and sex-specific hazard ratios (HRs) of incident dementia.

MRI-derived brain age (BA) estimates are often obtained using deep learning models that may perform relatively poorly on new data. This study introduces a convolutional neural network (CNN) to estimate BA after training on the MRIs of 4,681 cognitively normal (CN) participants and testing on 1,170 CN participants from an independent sample. At both individual and cohort levels, the CNN provides detailed anatomic maps of brain aging patterns.

Onions have shown antidepressant effects but relevant evidence from people was limited. We aimed to explore the prospective association between onion consumption and risk of depressive symptoms in the general population. We used data from 2 cohorts: the Tianjin Chronic Low-grade Systemic Inflammation and Health (TCLSIH) and the UK Biobank.

Endometriosis is a common chronic gynecologic pathology with a large negative impact on women's health. It is also associated with several psychiatric comorbidities, including depression and anxiety. This is the first large-scale study to provide genetic and phenotypic evidence of the processes underlying the psychiatric comerbidities of endometriosi.

A comprehensive view of chemokines and the risk and prognosis of breast cancer is scarce. Little is known about their causal associations. We found an inverse association between genetic predisposition to CCL5 and breast cancer, while CCL19 was associated with breast cancer survival. These associations suggested the potential of these chemokine as tools for breast cancer prevention and treatment.

A variety of statistical approaches in nutritional epidemiology have been developed to enhance the precision of dietary variables derived from longitudinal questionnaires. Correlation with biomarkers is often used to assess the relative validity of these different approaches. We present a novel high-throughput approach which utilizes the modest but importantly non-zero influence of genetic variation on variation in dietary intake.

Despite evidence linking habitual sleep duration and risk of disease, the genetic determinants of sleep duration are poorly understood, especially outside of European (EUR) populations. A polygenic score of 78 European ancestry sleep duration single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) is associated with sleep duration in an African, East Asian and South Asian cohort.

Smoking and alcohol consumption were associated with the development of depression and anxiety. 3'UTR APA quantitative trait loci (3'aQTLs) have been associated with multiple health states and conditions. Our aim is to evaluate the interactive effects of 3'aqTLs-alcohol consumption/tobacco smoking on the risk of anxiety and depression.

Glaucoma, a leading cause of irreversible blindness, is a highly heritable human disease. Previous genome-wide association studies have identified over 100 loci for the most common form, primary open-angle glau coma. Two key glaucomA-associated traits also show high heritability: intraocular pressure and optic nerve head excavation damage.

GLIMPSE2 is a low-coverage whole-genome sequencing imputation method. It scales sublinearly in both the number of samples and markers. The method retains high accuracy for ancient and modern genomes.

Asthma is a complex, heterogeneous disease strongly associated with type 2 inflammation. Blood eosinophil counts guide therapeutic interventions in moderate and severe asthma. Despite these critical associations, the shared genetic architecture of these two traits remains unknown.

Dietary quality score was a good approximation of overall dietary quality. An unhealthy diet was associated with markers of poorer cardiometabolic health. The first component explained 14% of the variation in the dietary data.

Nonresponse is common and impedes proper interpretation and generalizability of results. We examined item nonresponse behaviour across 109 questionnaire items in the UK Biobank (N = 360,628) Phenotypic factor scores for two participant-selected nonresponse answers predicted participant nonresponse in follow-up surveys.

Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is characterized by a constellation of metabolic risk factors, including obesity, hypertriglyceridemia, low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels, hypertension, and hyperglycemia. This study explored the associations of brain morphology with MetS and brain aging due to MetS.

Hospital-treated infections had more consistent deleterious effects on volumetric and white matter integrity brain neuroimaging outcomes compared with total infectious burden. Further studies are needed in comparable populations.

Several lysosomal genes are associated with Parkinson's disease (PD), yet the association between PD and ARSA remains unclear. We found evidence for associations between functional ARSA variants and PD in four cohorts and in the meta-analysis. We also found an association between loss-of-function variants andPD in the United Kingdom Biobank cohort.

Omega-3 fatty acids and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) exhibited a negative association with heart failure risk. Conversely, creatinine negatively associated with a HLS, but positively correlated with the risk of HF. Adding these three metabolites to the classical risk factor prediction model, the prediction accuracy of heart failure incidence can be improved.

Mendelian randomization (MR) can help to mitigate biases due to confounding and reverse causation in observational studies. MR results suggest there may not be protective effects of modest alcohol consumption on obesity traits and type 2 diabetes. Heavy alcohol consumption could lead to increased measures of obesity as well as increased risk of type 2 Diabetes.

Stroke is a leading cause of death and disability worldwide. Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a common cause of stroke but may not be detectable at the time of stroke. We hypothesized that an AF polygenic risk score (PRS) can discriminate between cardioembolic stroke and noncardioembolic strokes.

The association of a healthy lifestyle and the American Heart Association (AHA) Life's Essential 8 (LE8) score with the risk of new-onset nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) remains uncertain. 266,645 participants without prior liver diseases were included from the UK Biobank. During a median follow-up of 11.9 years, 2284(0.9%) participants developed severe NAFLD.

We used the UK Biobank neuroimaging dataset (N = 37,447) to examine associations with six variables related to physical and mental health. Age may require only 300 individuals to provide highly replicable associations but other phenotypes required 1,500 to 3,900 individuals. The required sample size showed a negative power law relation with the estimated effect size.

Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) may lead to life-threatening respiratory symptoms. Understanding the genetic basis of the prognosis of COVID- 19 is important for risk profiling of potentially severe symptoms.

The relationship of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins with risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) compared with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) is yet to be resolved. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with TRL/remnant cholesterol and LDL cholesterol were identified in the UK Biobank population.

Dietary iron intake was measured using a web-based 24-h dietary recall questionnaire from 2009 to 2012. Incident dementia was ascertained using hospital inpatient records and death registers until April 2021. Cox proportional regression models examined the association between iron intake and incident dementia.

 limited evidence is available on residential green space and risk of incident type 2 diabetes (T2D) We conducted a prospective analysis in UK Biobank. Of 379,238 participants at baseline, 15564 incident T2D cases were identified with 12.4 years of follow-up. In main models, individuals who exposed to green space at 300 m buffer in high level had 14.4 % (95 % CI: 8.0 %, 20.3 %) lower risk.

Left ventricular maximum wall thickness (LVMWT) is an important biomarker of left ventricular hypertrophy and provides diagnostic and prognostic information in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) We performed a genome-wide association study of LVMWT measured from the cardiovascular magnetic resonance examinations of 42 176 European individuals.

Large longitudinal studies exploring the role of dietary patterns in the assessment of long-term outcomes of NAFLD are still lacking. We conducted a prospective analysis of 128,695 UK Biobank participants. Cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate the risk associated with two dietary patterns.

Hypertension might be a modifiable risk factor for neurodegeneration diseases. The associations between blood pressure (BP), arterial stiffness index and retinal neurodegneration remain unclear. This study used cross-sectional data from the United Kingdom BioBank and longitudinal data from Chinese Ocular Imaging Project.

Physical activity (PA) plays an important role in health outcomes for people with cancer. Less is known about the PA of lung cancer patients. The strong history of smoking could influence pre-diagnosis levels of PA.

Few studies have explored the genetic underpinnings of intra-abdominal visceral fat deposition. A genome-wide significant signal was found on chromosome 2q14.3 in the sex-combined GWAS. The negatively associated variants were most common in European Americans and African Americans and not observed in Japanese Americans.

Modern healthcare data reflect massive multi-level and multi-scale information collected over many years. This paper aims to study the time to disease onset and progression and identify the time-varying risk factors that drive them. We developed an algorithmic approach to phenotyping the incidence of diseases.

Statins might modulate the gut microbiome and alleviate systematic inflammation, which in turn, may have a protective effect against irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) The aim of our study was to evaluate the gender-specific association between statin exposure and the risk of IBS.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) of gut microbiota were calculated from individual-level genotype data of the UK Biobank cohort. Interaction analysis identified several significant genes that interacted with gut microbiota, such as RORA and ASTN2. Our study results support the genetic effects of gut bacteria on the development of neuroticism and general happiness.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of suicidal thoughts and behaviors support the existence of genetic contributions. Suicidality (h2 = 7.6%) had higher h2 than the S-factor (h1 = 2.54, Pdiff = 4.78)

We use UK Biobank and a unique IVF family dataset to investigate sibling variation in both phenotype and genotype. We develop a novel sibling-pair method for detection of recombination breaks via statistical discontinuities. The new method is used to construct a dataset of 1.44 million recombination events.

Study looked at 314,093 participants from the UK Biobank. Frailty phenotype was assessed according to the five criteria of Fried et al. The ideal CVH was significantly associated with a lower risk of all CVD outcomes.

Cardiovascular disease is a major cause of excess mortality in people with schizophrenia. Several factors are responsible, including lifestyle and metabolic effects of antipsychotics. We aimed to explore whether shared genetic causes contribute to these cardiac variations. High polygenic risk scores for schizophrenia are associated with decreased cardiac volumes and increased ejection fractions.

The geometric patterns of ventricular remodeling are determined using indexed left ventricular mass (LVM), end-diastolic volume (LVEDV) and concentricity, most often measured using the mass-to-volume ratio (MVR) The aims of this study were to validate lean body mass-based allometric coefficients for scaling and to determine an index of concentricITY that is independent of both volume and LBM.

Magnitude-based PDFF (Proton Density Fat Fraction) and R 2  &#8727; is extended to calculate field inhomogeneity (field map) using the phase images. The estimation is formulated in matrix form, resolving the field map in a least-squares sense. The limits of quantification of our voxel-independent implementation were assessed.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common late-onset neurodegenerative disorder. Identifying individuals at increased risk of developing AD is important for early intervention. Using data from the Alzheimer Disease Genetics Consortium, we constructed polygenic risk scores (PRSs) for AD. We then built machine learning (ML) models for predicting development of AD.

Genome-wide polygenic scores were developed and validated for femoral neck and total body BMD. Out of four studied PGSs, PGS_TBBMD81 had the weakest predictive accuracy. Incorporating PGS into clinical diagnosis is anticipated to increase the population-level screening benefits.

A total of 495,700 participants from the UK Biobank were included in this study. Walking pace was self-defined as slow, average, or brisk. Handgrip strength was assessed by dynamometer and was divided into sex-specific quartiles. Other dementia risk factors, including education, physical activity, hypertension, depression, diabetes, and family history of dementia, were also collected.

The associations of serum 25(OH)D, sun exposure time, and dietary vitamin D with risk of acute kidney injury (AKI) are unclear. We aimed to evaluate the relations of these factors with new-onset AKI and examine whether genetic susceptibility modified such associations.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) are expected to play an increasingly important role in clinical risk stratification. To improve the predictive performance of PRS, it is desirable to fit multivariable models directly on the genetic data. We develop an adapted component-wise  L   2 -boosting algorithm to fit genotype data from large cohort studies.

Study included 15,104 patients with T2D free of macro- and microvascular complications at baseline (2006 to 2010) Healthy lifestyle behaviors included noncurrent smoking, recommended waist circumference, regular physical activity, healthy diet, and moderate alcohol drinking. Over a median of 8.1 years of follow-up, 1,296 cases of the composite microv vascular complications occurred.

UK Biobank is a prospective cohort study of 500,000 adults aged 40-69 years at recruitment (2006-2010) 4.5% of English UKB participants had a positive microbiological isolate in 2015. Half of UKB isolates came from 12 laboratories, and 70% from 21 laboratories.

Carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) is a marker of subclinical atherosclerosis. We assessed the independent relevance of general adiposity (body mass index), central adiposity, and body composition with CIMT among adults in the United Kingdom. After mutual adjustment, body mass index remained positively associated with C IMT, but waist circumference was completely attenuated.

Patients with cardiomyopathies often exhibit other cardiac conditions, such as atrial fibrillation (Afib), which has also been linked to TTNtvs. A combination of hiPSI TTNtv status and early Afib diagnosis (before age 60) found a subset ofTTNtv individuals at high risk for CM.

We examined associations of BMI category and grip strength tertile with risk of severe COVID-19 in 327 500 UK Biobank participants. Compared to normal-weight males with high grip strength, the odds ratio (95 % confidence interval) for males with obesity with low grip strength was 2.39 (1.59-3.60), but 1.52 (0.98-2.35) for those with a high gripstrength. Muscle mass and strength development should be considered as a means to reduce risk.

Lithium is a nutritional trace element that is also used pharmacologically for the management of bipolar and related psychiatric disorders. Recent studies have shown that lithium supplementation can extend health and lifespan in different animal models.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) has traditionally been considered a coronary heart disease 'risk equivalent' for future mortality. This study aims to determine the risk of all-cause mortality of patients with T2DM and CVD in UK and Hong Kong.

Current processing methods associated with large whole-body volumes are time intensive and prone to artifacts. The most common artifacts are fat-water swaps, where the labels are inverted at the voxel level. There is a clear need for a robust method to accurately separate fat and water volumes.

Dupuytren's disease (DD) is a fibroproliferative disorder of the hands. The role of manual work exposure in the aetiology of DD is controversial. We investigated whether current occupational exposure to manual work is associated with DD, and if there is a dose-response relationship.

Study looked at 9,141 and 21,489 middle-aged participants with diabetes from Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) trial and UK Biobank. 45.9% (4,193/9,141, 5.5 median follow-up years) patients in ACCORD and 10.5% (2,251/21,489, 11.9 median following years) experienced fall and in-patient events.

There is uncertainty about putative causal relationships between B vitamins and health outcomes. We performed a phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) to investigate the associations of genetically predicted plasma concentrations of folate, vitamin B6, and their metabolite homocysteine with a wide range of disease outcomes. After multiple corrections, 32 phenotypic associations were identified. Three of the associations were causal.

Low job satisfaction has been associated with negative health and negative organizational outcomes. This study assesses associations between job satisfaction and three personality traits related to cognitive- and inhibitory control. Delay discounting and risk-taking were associated with, respectively, lower and higher job satisfaction. Sensation seeking had no significant association with job satisfaction for either sex.

'Dietary variety' has been identified as a factor associated with food intake. This relationship may have longer-term benefits for body weight management when eating low-energy, nutrient-dense foods. But it may increase the risk of overconsumption (and body adiposity) when foods are high energy density.

Somatic mutations in blood indicative of clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) are associated with an increased risk of hematologic malignancy, coronary artery disease and all-cause mortality. Here we analyze the relation between CHIP status and incident peripheral artery disease (PAD) and atherosclerosis.

WHO has called on the group currently most affected by the virus, men who have sex with men (MSM), to limit their sexual partners. The diminution in number of sexual partners not only decreases the proportion of infected MSM but could also increases the number of days needed to reach a given infection level.

Loneliness and social isolation have been linked to an increased risk of non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular disease and dementia. But their association with the risk of severe infection is uncertain. We aimed to examine the associations between loneliness and social. isolation and risk of hospital-treated infections using data from two independent cohort studies.

An increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) has been reported in men with an additional sex chromosome. The association between other sex chromosome aneuploidies and VTE is not well characterized. This retrospective cohort study looked at 642 544 individuals aged 18 to 90 years from 2 population-scale biobanks. Among MyCode participants, during 10 years of follow-up, 17 incident VTE events per 1353 person-years were detected.

Retinal structural abnormalities have been found to serve as biomarkers for cardiovascular disease (CVD) However, the association between retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness and the incidence of CVD events remains inconclusive. We aimed to examine this link in two prospective cohort studies.

Otosclerosis is one of the most common causes of conductive hearing loss. It typically presents in adulthood and half of the patients have a positive family history. Pathophysiology is poorly understood. We identify 23 novel risk loci (p)

Whole exome sequencing may identify rare pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants (LPVs) that are linked to atrial fibrillation (AF) The impact of LPVs associated with AF on a population level on outcomes is unclear.

Sex-related steroid hormones and proteins may contribute to the sex differences in the characteristics and health consequences of alcohol use disorder. Study aimed to examine the associations between alcohol dependence (AD) and sex-related hormones/proteins using a population-based dataset.

Testosterone levels are linked with diverse characteristics of human health, yet whether these associations reflect correlation or causation remains debated. Here, we provide a broad perspective on the role of genetically determined testosterone on complex diseases in both sexes. We find genetically predicted testosterone affects many sex-specific traits, with a pronounced impact on female reproductive health.

Inflammatory and infectious upper respiratory diseases (ICD-10: J30-J39) are growing health problems yet their genomic similarity is not known. We analyze genome-wide association to eight upper respiratory. diseases (61,195 cases) among 260,405 FinnGen participants.

Clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) is a common form of age-related somatic mosaicism that is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. CHIP mutations can be identified in peripheral blood samples that are sequenced using approaches that cover the whole genome, the whole exome, or targeted genetic regions. We present a stepwise method that combines filtering based on sequencing metrics and variant annotation to increase the accuracy of CHIP calls.

Lifestyle advice by the World Cancer Research Fund (WCRF) is associated with the risk of 13 types of cancer. We investigated whether these associations differ according to genetic risk using data from the UK Biobank. The recommended lifestyle has beneficial associations with most cancers.

Shorter telomere length (TL) is associated with risk of several age-related diseases and decreased life span. The extent to which dietary patterns and practices associate with TL is uncertain. Adherence to the "Mediterranean" and the "Prudent" patterns, was positively associated with LTL.

Little is known about the genetic determinants of medication use in preventing cardiometabolic diseases. Using the Finnish nationwide drug purchase registry with follow-up since 1995, we performed genome-wide association analyses. We discovered 333 independent loci (P)

 limited data exist on the long-term effects of the pandemic on incident psychiatric morbidities. We included 308,400 participants free of diagnosis of anxiety or depression, as well as 213,757 Participants free of anxiolytics or antidepressants prescriptions. We explored the trends in incident diagnoses and drug prescriptions for anxiety and depression from 16 March 2020 to 31 August 2021.

Diffusion MRI is a useful neuroimaging tool for non-invasive mapping of human brain microstructure and structural connections. Analysis of diffusion MRI data often requires brain segmentation, including volumetric segmentation and cerebral cortical surfaces. This study proposes to synthesize high-quality T1w anatomical images directly from diffusion data.

Obesity remains an unmet global health burden. Detrimental anatomical distribution of body fat is a major driver of obesity-mediated mortality risk. However, our understanding of the full genetic contribution to human adiposity is incomplete.

The relationship of handgrip strength and/or walking pace with the risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD) remains uncertain. We aimed to investigate the relationship using data from the large-scale, observational UK Biobank.

Few prospective studies have explored their dose-response relationship. Study included 447 658 participants in the UK Biobank who were initially free of gout. Compared with those who were not tea and coffee drinkers, those who consumed >6 cups/day of tea or coffee were associated with 23% (HR 0.77, 95% CI, 0.66, 091) and 40% lower risks. Hyperuricaemia status had a potential effect modification on the association of coffee intake with gouts.

Three lean tissue and seven adipose tissue parameters based on MRI data from the UK Biobank were used in this study. Participants with European ancestry and data on at least one parameter were screened. Median weight-to-muscle ratios at age 45 were 0.51 and 0.83 kg/L lower compared with those at age 70 in men and women, respectively.

Genetic risk of type 2 diabetes remains strongly associated with risk of prediabetes and undiagnosed diabetes. This could have important implications for identifying individuals at risk for prevention and early diagnosis programs.

People with coeliac disease are at increased risk of cardiovascular disease, including ischaemic heart disease, myocardial infarction, and stroke. Study looked at 469 095 adults aged 40-69 years from England, Scotland, and Wales between 2006 and 2010 without cardiovascular disease.

Socioeconomic status (SES) inequity was recognized as a driver of some certain infectious diseases. Few studies evaluated the association between SES and the burden of overall infections. Lifestyle score mediated 2.9% of effects from SES, while cardiovascular disease (CVD) mediated a proportion of 6.2%. In subgroup analysis, we found that males and African with lower SES showed much higher infection risk.

Common genetic risk factors for intracranial aneurysm (IA) and ASAH were found to explain a large amount of disease heritability. We constructed a genetic risk score to predict ASAH incidence and IA presence. We also assessed association between the metaGRS and patient characteristics.

A prospective cohort of patients with COVID-19 infection between 16 March 2020 and 30 November 2020 was identified from UK Biobank, and followed for up to 18 months, until 31 August 2021. In the acute phase, patients with the infection were associated with a significantly higher short-term risk of CVD and all-cause mortality.

Women are at a higher risk of developing age-related neurocognitive disorders including Alzheimer's disease. Emerging evidence suggests that reproductive life events such as pregnancy and hormone use may influence women's cognition later in life.

Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) is associated with multiple health outcomes, including mortality. However, whether TSH levels are causally associated with the risk of mortality remains unclear. This study aims to investigate the causal association between Tsh levels and all-cause mortality using Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses.

Study looked at associations of disrupted circadian rest-activity rhythm (CRAR) with cardiovascular diseases and mortality among people with type 2 diabetes. Participants in the lowest quartile of IS and RA exhibited the greatest risk of developing cardiovascular disease.

Selenium is a trace mineral that is commonly included in micronutrient supplements. The effect of selenium on kidney function remains unclear. A genetically predicted micronsutrient can be used to assess the causal estimates by Mendelian randomization (MR)

Blood pressure (BP) is often not at goal in stroke survivors, leaving individuals vulnerable to additional vascular events. We hypothesize that a higher polygenic susceptibility to hypertension (PSH) leads to worse BP control. We analyzed 5,940 stroke survivors.

Physical activity improves quality of life and protects against age-related diseases. With age, physical activity tends to decrease, increasing vulnerability to disease in the elderly. We trained a neural network to predict age from 115,456 one week-long 100Hz wrist accelerometer recordings from the UK Biobank.

The majority of polygenic risk scores (PRSs) are derived from European (EUR) populations. Here, we aimed to generate a PRS by incorporating East Asian (EAS) and EUR ancestry groups. We identified 48 independent variants beyond genome-wide significance (P)

The study is designed to examine whether the time of day of physical activity is associated with cardiovascular mortality. We analyzed 94,489 UK Biobank adults with objectively measured physical activity. The hazard of cardiovascular mortality was elevated in the early morning group and night group.

Data were from 90,096 UK Biobank participants without prevalent diabetes (mean 62 years of age; 57% women) who wore a wrist accelerometer for 7 days. For a given level of PAEE, odds of T2D were lower among those engaging in more moderate-to-vigorous activity. The association was stronger in men than women and weaker in those with obesity.

A reliable risk prediction model is critically important for identifying individuals with high risk of developing lung cancer as candidates for low-dose chest computed tomography (LDCT) screening. We developed an Optimized early Warning model for Lung cancer risk (OWL) using the XGBoost algorithm.

Analysis of host genetic components provides insights into the susceptibility and response to viral infection such as severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) We identify 15 super variants with various levels of significance as susceptibility loci for COVID-19 mortality.

This study aims to explore the joint associations of shift work and sleep patterns with incident depression. The present prospective cohort using data from UK biobank, included 220,651 participants aged 38 to 71 years recruited between 2006 and 2010.

People with misophonia experience strong negative emotional responses to sounds and associated stimuli-mostly human produced. The exact nature of the disorder remains a matter of ongoing research and debate. Here, we investigated the genetic etiology to understand contributing genetic factors and shed light on individual differences.

Retinal photography is becoming increasingly acceptable as a non-invasive imaging tool for CVD. This study aims to further validate our biomarker, Reti-CVD, to detect risk group of &#8805; 10% in 10-year CVD risk. It also aims to enhance risk assessment in individuals with QRISK3 of 7.5-10%.

In genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for thousands of phenotypes in biobanks, most binary phenotypes have substantially fewer cases than controls. Many widely used approaches for joint analysis of multiple phenotypes produce inflated type I error rates. In this research, we develop a method to jointly analyze multiple unbalanced case-control phenotypes. We find that the proposed approach can identify more significant SNPs than the other viable methods.

Ageing traits and frailty are important health issues in modern medicine. Evidence supporting the causal effects of tobacco smoking on various ageing traits is required. The outcome data were obtained from 337 138 white British ancestry participants from the UK Biobank.

Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) gene is linked to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. LPL expression was investigated in human liver specimens and in liver cell lines. Liver expression of LPL mRNA was dependent on the LPL  rs13702 genotype and significantly higher in patients with ALD cirrhosis.

The coefficient of determination (R 2 ) is a well-established measure to indicate the predictive ability of polygenic scores (PGSs) However, the sampling variance of R 2 is rarely considered so that 95% confidence intervals (CI) are not usually reported. Here, we show how to estimate the variance and covariance of R 1 values to assess the 95% CI and p value of the R 2 difference.

South Asian individuals have increased cardiovascular disease and mortality risks. Compared with creatinine, cystatin C identified triple the number of participants with estimated glomerular filtration.

Genetic variants in drug targets can be used to predict the long-term, on-target effect of drugs. Here, we assess how sex and body mass index may modify the effect of genetically predicted lower CETP levels on biomarkers and cardiovascular outcomes.

The UK Biobank cognitive assessment data has been a significant resource for researchers looking to investigate predictors and modifiers of cognitive abilities and associated health outcomes in the general population. We argue that both approaches are suboptimal - one being too specific and the other one too general - and suggest a novel multifactorial solution to represent cognitive abilities.

Childhood trauma and adversity have strong associations with physical and psychiatric morbidity throughout the life-course. One possible mechanism through which childhood trauma may predispose individuals to poor psychiatric outcomes is via associations with brain structure. This study aimed to elucidate the associations between childhood trauma and brain structure across two large, independent community cohorts.

Study looked at associations of residential green and blue spaces with chronic kidney disease (CKD) incidence. A total of 346,697 participants from UK Biobank without CKD at baseline were included. The primary outcome was new-onset CKD ascertained through linkage to health administrative datasets.

22q11.2 copy-number variants (CNVs) in the general population remain understudied. We performed a phenome-wide association scan in 405,324 unrelated UK Biobank (UKBB) participants. We found significant associations for eight continuous and nine binary traits associated under different models.

A systematic review of published papers prior to August 2022 was performed first to identify genes where germline mutations were associated with lung cancer risk. We then performed a confirmation study in 2,050 lung cancer cases and 198,553 controls in the UK Biobank (UKB) Germline mutations of these genes were identified from sequencing data and annotated using The American College of Medical Genetics criteria.

Higher intake of SSBs and ASBs was each associated with a higher risk of dementia. Moderate intake of NJs was related to a lower dementia risk. The associations were not significantly modified by genetic risk.

Previous studies indicated that glucosamine supplements may have a general anticancer effect. This study aimed to assess whether the potential effect differs across different types of cancers in a large prospective cohort study. All participants from the UK Biobank who were free of cancers were included and followed up until 2021.

Female sex is associated with an increased prevalence of dementia. Menopause may have a role to play in explaining sex differences in cognition, and possibly the risk of future dementia. We aimed to determine if the rate of cognitive decline differed between stages of the menopausal transition.

The genetic regulation of post-prandial glucose levels is poorly understood. We characterise the genetic architecture of blood glucose measured within 0 and 24 h of fasting in 368,000 European ancestry participants of the UK Biobank. We found a near-linear increase in the heritability of non-fasting glucose levels over time.

Existing survival analysis techniques heavily rely on strong modelling assumptions and are prone to model misspecification errors. In this paper, we develop an inferential method based on ideas from conformal prediction, which can wrap around any survival prediction algorithm.

Study aimed to identify novel associations between irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and a broad range of outcomes. 346,352 white participants in the U.K. Biobank were randomly divided into two halves. PheWAS identified five diseases associated with genetically predicted IBS.

UK Biobank participants (aged 40-69 years) completed 24-h dietary recalls between 2009 and 2012. During a median follow-up time of 9.8 years, 15,921 individuals developed cancer and 4009 cancer-related deaths occurred. Every 10 percentage points increment in UPF consumption was associated with an increased incidence of ovarian cancer.

Michigan Genomics Initiative (MGI) is a single-health-system biobank currently consisting of >91,000 participants recruited primarily during surgical encounters at Michigan Medicine. Compared with the much larger population-based UK Biobank, MGI has higher prevalence for nearly all diagnosis-code-based phenotypes.

Type 2 diabetes is associated with an increased risk of depression. But the extent to which risk factor modification can mitigate this risk is unclear. We aimed to examine the association between the incidence of major depression and clinically relevant depressive symptoms among individuals with type 2 diabetes.

Head and neck cancer is often diagnosed late and prognosis for most patients remains poor. We developed a risk prediction model based on demographic and lifestyle risk factors, human papillomavirus (HPV) serological markers and genetic markers.

Acute pancreatitis (AP) is the leading cause of gastrointestinal disease-related hospital admissions. Few therapeutic options exist for AP prevention. Blood proteins with causal evidence may represent promising drug targets, but few have been causally linked with AP.

Sleep is an emerging risk factor for dementia but its association with brain health remains unclear. Every additional hour of sleep above 7 h/day was associated with 0.10-0.25% lower brain volumes. Negative non-linear association was observed between sleep duration, grey matter, and hippocampal volume.

Higher physical activity levels are associated with lower risks of cancer, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. But associations with many common and less severe health conditions are not known. This prospective cohort study used data from 81 717 UK Biobank participants aged 42 to 78 years.

Social isolation and loneliness have emerged as important risk factors for cardiovascular diseases, particularly during the coronavirus disease pandemic. This study sought to examine the association of social isolation, loneliness, and their combination with incident HF.

PCSK9 deficiency causes cardiac remodeling and heart failure (HF) Cardiac remodeling after PCSK9-inhibitor treatment is a concern for patients. This study focused on a subset of those individuals who completed cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging.

The hypothalamus-pituitary-thyroid axis coordinates brain development and postdevelopmental function. Hypothyroidism was positively associated with an increased risk of major depressive disorder. Strong coheritability was observed between thyroid disease and both major depressive (MDD) and anxiety disorders (ANXs)

Recent studies have highlighted an association between epilepsy and Parkinson disease (PD) The role of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) has not been explored. This nested case-control study started collecting data from the UK Biobank (UKB) in 2006.

The clinical utility of polygenic risk scores (PRS) for coronary artery disease (CAD) has not yet been established. The CAD PRS was significantly associated with the risk of MI in all age groups but had significantly stronger risk prediction at younger ages. Results of this cohort study suggest that the predictive ability of a CADPRS was greater in younger individuals.

Keloids and hypertrophic scars (excessive scarring) are relatively understudied disfiguring chronic skin conditions with high treatment resistance. This multicenter cross-sectional population-based cohort study used UK Biobank data and fitted logistic regression models for testing associations between excessive scarring and a variety of outcomes.

High-risk lifestyle factors included current smoking, heavy alcohol intaking, poor diet pattern, physically inactive. During a 14.8-year follow-up, 23,164 participants developed depression and 989 developed post-depression dementia.

Lean patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) represent 10-20% of the affected population and may have heterogeneous drivers of disease. Six patients with lean NAFLD were identified and underwent whole exome sequencing. Two lean patients (33%) were identified to have monogenic disorders. The lean patients had similar age, anthropometric and MRI characteristics to lean patients without a monogenic disorder.

No prior study has examined the effects of air pollution on the progression from healthy to chronic lung disease, subsequent chronic lung multimorbidity and further to death. Fine particulate matter showed the strongest association with all five transitions, with HRs (95% CI) per 5 &#181;g/m 3.

Study assessed associations between sleep behaviors with white matter macro and microstructure. A healthy sleep score integrated sleep behaviors including chronotype, insomnia, sleep duration, daytime sleepiness, and snoring. Unhealthy sleep behaviors were associated with increased WMH impacts.

Infants with bronchiolitis are at high risk for developing childhood asthma. While genome-wide association studies suggest common genetic susceptibilities between these conditions, the mechanisms underlying the link remain unclear. We sought to identify genetically driven metabolites associated with asthma development and genetic loci associated with both these metabolites and asthma susceptibility.

Wearable devices are transforming the electrocardiogram (ECG) into a ubiquitous medical test. This study assesses the association between premature ventricular and atrial contractions (PVCs and PACs) detected on wearable-format ECGs (15 s single lead) and cardiovascular outcomes.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) has been demonstrated to be effective in identifying individuals at high risk of developing cancer, but its prognostic value remains unclear. We constructed site-specific PRSs by aggregating the risk effect of independent variants derived from previous genome-wide association studies (GWASs) across 17 cancer types. Cox proportional hazards model was used to evaluate the association of each PRS with cancer survival.

Blood lipids and metabolites are markers of current health and future disease risk. Here, we describe plasma nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) biomarker data for 118,461 participants in the UK Biobank. The results reveal a plethora of biomarker associations.

Epstein Barr virus (EBV) infects 95% of the population worldwide. EBV is known to cause adverse health outcomes such as Hodgkin's, non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, and multiple sclerosis. There is substantial interest and investment in developing infection-preventing vaccines for EBV.

A bidirectional relationship between chronic pain (CP) and mental disorders has been reported. Coffee was believed to be associated with both. We aim to analyze the association of coffee consumption on the relationship of CP with depression and anxiety.

In UK Biobank, 380,976 depression-free individuals were included in this study. Polygenic risk score (PRS) was categorized into three groups in terms of tertiles. On average, 1.5 h/day of outdoor light was related to the minimum risk of depression.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has a prevalence of &#8764;25% worldwide, with significant public health consequences yet few effective treatments. Genetic variants in mitochondrial amidoxime-reducing component 1 ( MTARC1 ) have been associated with NAFLD and liver-related mortality. In vitro mARC1 knockdown decreased lipid accumulation and increased triglyceride secretion, and  in vivo  GalNAc-siRNA-mediated knockdown lowered hepatic but increased plasma triglycerides.

The cerebellum is recognized as being involved in neurocognitive and motor functions. However, the genetic determinants of cerebellar white matter integrity remain largely unknown. We conducted a genome-wide association analysis using diffusion tensor imaging data from 25,415 individuals from UK Biobank.

31,344 adults without obesity at baseline (age = 56.0 +/- 7.5 years; female = 49.1%) from the UK Biobank were included. During a mean follow up of 6.8 (SD = +/-2.3) years, 1354 (4.3%) participants developed obesity. Increasing physical activity with improved diet was associated with the largest difference in body fat percentage, body mass index, and waist circumference.

The associations between blood pressure and cannabis use remain inconsistent. The purpose of our study was to examine gender stratified associations of cannabis use and blood pressure among the general UK Biobank population based study.

The association of cardiovascular (CV) risk with social isolation and loneliness remains poorly studied. Social isolation was associated with a higher estimated 10-year ASCVD risk in both genders but only loneliness among men. Health policies should address these notions in prevention campaigns.

We examined the contribution of common and rare genetic variants to latent traits underlying psychiatric disorders. We used items from the UK Biobank Mental Health Questionnaire relevant to three psychiatric disorders: major depression, bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. We found moderate genetic correlations between the latent traits in our study and case-control phenotypes in previous genome-wide association studies.

Dietary fatty acid composition is associated with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) Few evidence had identified a clear role of dietary fatty Acid composition of typical diet in NAFLD. A dietary fatty acid pattern (DFP1) characterized by "PUFA enriched vegetarian" was negatively associated with NAFLL risk. Serum fatty acids were significantly associated with DFP1 and NAFLd.

There are marked sex differences in the prevalence, phenotypic presentation and treatment response for major depression. To date, no studies seek to identify sex-specific markers and pathways. We identified 11 loci passing genome-level significance for broad depression.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) have been among the leading advances in biomedicine in recent years. These typically distil genetic liability to a single number based on aggregation of an individual's genome-wide risk alleles. We introduce a 'pathway polygenic' paradigm of disease risk, in which multiple genetic liabilities underlie complex diseases.

Genome-wide association meta-analysis included 56 071 syncope cases and 890 790 controls. Study yielded 18 independent syncope variants, 17 of which were novel. One of the variants, p.Ser140Thr in PTPRN2, affected syncope only when maternally inherited.

Longitudinal changes in brain structure and lifestyle can affect sleep phenotypes. However, the influence of the interaction between longitudinal changes in. brain Structure and lifestyle on sleep phenotype remains unclear. Using genotype data from UK Biobank, we calculated polygenetic risk scores of longitudinal changes.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) can progress to cirrhosis and hepatic decompensation. Whether genetic variants influence the rate of progression to Cirrhosis or are useful in risk stratification among patients with NAFLD is uncertain. PNPLA3-rs738409-GG genotype, diabetes, obesity, and ALT of &#8805;2× upper limit of normal were associated with higher incidence rate of cir rhosis in both MGI and UKBB.

Anxiety and depressive symptoms usually co-occur. Neuroimaging abnormalities in patients with depression and anxiety disorders are therefore related to a combination of symptoms. We used a large population study to select individuals with anxiety, depressive, or both anxiety and depressive Symptoms.

Physical activity (PA) has been associated with benefits for cognitive function (CF) Previous estimates of the strength of this relationship may have been biased due to limitations in statistical modelling practices. We aimed to address this by using a rigorously constructed conceptual causal model to guide an empirical analysis.

Short and long sleep duration are associated with increased risk of metabolic syndrome (MetS) This study aimed to examine the associations of genetically determined sleep durations with MetS and its five components among a group of elderly population.

Study looked at association of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity and sedentary behaviour with all-cause mortality (ACM) and incident cardiovascular disease (CVD) In 328 228 participants (mean age 55.9 (SD 8.1) years, 45% men) with an average follow-up of 12.1 (1.4) years 18 033 deaths and 98 922 incident CVD events occurred.

Lifestyle factors were considered to calculate the healthy lifestyle score. The polygenetic risk score (PRS) was derived for coronary heart disease (CHD), ischemic stroke (IS), and heart failure (HF) In 13,348 female BC survivors, there were 986 CVD events.

Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is characterized by remodeling and narrowing of the pulmonary vasculature which results in elevations of pulmonary arterial pressures. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) using the UK Biobank, analyzing the genomes of 493 individuals diagnosed with PAH.

Previous studies suggested that vasomotor symptoms were associated with an increasing risk of coronary heart diseases (CHD) We found that among non-vasomotor menopausal symptoms, only insomnia symptoms may increase the lifetime risk of CHD. Insomnia at different ages near menopause has differential impacts on CHD risk.

Study sought to determine the extent that trauma exposure, depression polygenic risk scores (PRS), and their interaction are associated with MDD. Data from 102,182 individuals from the large-scale UK Biobank population cohort was analysed.

UK Biobank recruited 502,534 individuals ages 37 to 73 years living in the United Kingdom between 2006 and 2010. Genotype data from 459,855 individuals were available for CNV calling. Carriers of the 9p24.3 (DMRT1) duplication showed lower mood/anxiety.

Data from 196,154 members of the UK biobank had at least one 24 h dietary recall. COVID-19 outcomes were based on PCR testing, hospital admissions, and death certificates. The fully adjusted model showed that participants in the highest (vs. lowest) DII/E-DII quintile were at 10-17% increased risk.

Frailty is a relevant issue in older people, being associated with several negative outcomes. Increasing literature is reporting that pollution (particularly air pollution) can increase the risk of frailty, but the research is still limited. We aimed to investigate the potential association of pollution (air, noise) with frailty and prefrailty among participants 60 years and older of the UK Biobank study.

Metabolic differences have been reported between individuals with and without major depressive disorder (MDD) But their consistency and causal relevance have been unclear. We conducted a metabolome-wide association study of MDD with 249 metabolomic measures available in the UK Biobank (n = 29,757)

In 2018, The World Cancer Research Fund (WCRF)/American Institute for Cancer Research (AICR) published ten evidence-based Cancer Prevention Recommendations. UK Biobank recruited >500,000 individuals aged 37-73 years, between 2006 and 2010. We used data on anthropometric measurements, physical activity and diet to calculate adherence scores.

Cross-sectional analysis was conducted of 148,828 UK Biobank participants. Chronic pain was present in 76,095 participants (51.1%). The overall prevalence of NeuP was 9.2%. Neuropathic pain was significantly associated with worse health-related quality of life, having a manual or personal service type occupation, and younger age.

Ischemic stroke (IS) is a highly heritable trait. There are limited data on the contribution of rare genetic variation to IS. We conducted an exome-wide study using whole-exome sequencing data from 152 058 UK Biobank participants, including 1777 IS cases. Rare genetic variation at CYP2R1 was significantly associated with IS risk.

Uterine leiomyomas (ULs) are benign smooth muscle tumors that are common in premenopausal women. Somatic alterations in MED12, HMGA2, FH, genes encoding subunits of the SRCAP complex, and genes involved in Cullin 3-RING E3 ligase neddylation are mutually exclusive UL drivers.

We used UK Biobank participants who reported RA (n=5,625) and employed latent class analysis (LCA) to create classes of LTC combinations for those with &#8805;2 additional LTCs. Cox-proportional hazard and negative binomial regression were used to compare the risk of all-cause mortality, major adverse cardiac events (MACE), and number of emergency hospitalisations.

Study included 27,827 participants with baseline diabetes from the UK Biobank. Long-term exposure to ambient NO 2 , NO x , PM 2.5 , and PM 10 increased risk of various cardiovascular outcomes in the diabetic population. For most of the cardiovascular events, the deleterious effects of air pollutants persisted even when participants were exposed to air pollutants concentrations below WHO guideline limits.

Living alone has profound consequences for mental and physical health. Despite this, there has been a rapid increase in single-person households worldwide. The persistent trend for solitary living will require new answers from public-health decision makers.

Dyslipidaemia is an important cardiovascular risk factor for people with severe mental illness, contributing to premature mortality. The link between antipsychotics and dyslipidaemic is well established, while evidence on antidepressants is mixed. To investigate if antidepressant/antipsychotic use was associated with lipid parameters in UK Biobank participants.

Up to 19% of the population takes iron supplementation. We used Mendelian randomization to estimate the causal effect of iron on infections. We did not observe an increase in risk of most infectious diseases with increases in iron stores. However for bacterial infections, higher iron stores may increase odds of infections.

Apotolipoprotein E (APOE ) E4 allele and glaucoma prevalence in large cohorts. Outcome phenotypes were also correlated with Alzheimer's dementia (AD), a clinical outcome highly associated with APOE  E4. A paradoxical positive association was observed between AD and both glau coma (OR, 1.30; 95% CI,. 1.08-1.54; P   P  = 0.018) in the UKBB cohort. A small negative association observed between the APOE E4 and gl Kaucoma was not evident in either replication cohort.

Data from 48,286 women from the UK Biobank cohort were analyzed. Those in the most active quartile had a 26% lower risk of breast cancer. No evidence of interaction between PA domains and menopause status was found.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) incidence and mortality are higher among men than among women. We aimed to estimate overall and age-specific risk advancement periods (RAPs) for men compared to women. RAPs were derived by Cox regression models among 331 224 participants aged 40 to 69.

African populations are vastly underrepresented in genetic studies but have the most genetic variation. We calculated polygenic risk scores (PRSs) in simulations across Africa and in empirical data from South Africa, Uganda, and the United Kingdom. PRS accuracy improves with ancestry-matched discovery cohorts more than from ancestry-mismatched studies.

Study involved 51,597 UK Biobank participants who had retinal images available to extract oculomics of RVFs. Phenome-wide association analyses (PheWASs) were conducted to identify RVFs associated with the genetic risks of the main types of aneurysms. An RVF risk score was derived to identify patients with an increased risk.

We propose BIGKnock (BIobank-scale Gene-based association test via Knockoffs) It leverages long-range chromatin interaction data, and performs conditional genome-wide testing via knockoffs. We show it can prioritize causal genes over proxy associations at a locus.

Study aimed to assess associations between types and sources of dietary carbohydrates and CVD incidence. Secondary aim was to examine associations of carbohydrate intakes with triglycerides within lipoprotein subclasses. 26,095 participants with baseline NMR spectroscopy measurements were examined.

Psoriasis is an immune-mediated disease in which multiple immune cells play crucial roles. The risk of psoriasis increased with high levels of monocytes, neutrophils, and eosinophils. The roles of the neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet-LYmphocyte Ratio (PLR), and lymphocyte-monocyte ratio were also assessed. NLR, PLR, and LMR correlated with the PASI score.

UK Biobank adults with &#8805;two 24-h dietary assessments and data on cardiometabolic health were included (n = 24 553; mean age: 55.9 y). A posteriori dietary patterns (DP1; DP2) were generated through reduced rank regression (response variables: SFA, MUFA, PUFA) Mediterranean Diet Score (MDS) and Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) dietary patterns were created. DP1, positively correlated with SFAs, MUFAs and PUFAs, characterized by higher nuts, seeds and vegetables intake and lower fruits and low-fat yoghurt intake, was associated with lower HDL-C. DP2,

Pain plays an important role in chronic ankle instability (CAI) prolonged pain may be associated with ankle dysfunction and abnormal neuroplasticity. This study included a UK Biobank dataset of 28 patients with ankle pain and 109 healthy controls and a validation dataset of 15 patients with CAI and 15 healthy controls. All participants underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging scanning.

Lung function prospectively affects cognitive brain health independent of their overlapping factors remains largely unknown. This study aimed to investigate the longitudinal association between decreased lung function and Cognitive brain health. It also aimed to explore underlying biological and brain structural mechanisms.

Genetic screening for clonal hematopoiesis of indetermined potential (CHIP), a novel risk factor for stroke, could identify patients with myeloid precursor lesions. CHIP prevalence was compared with age-matched healthy controls from the Nijmegen Biomedical Study and the UK Biobank.

The shared pathophysiological features of the cerebrovascular disease (CVD) and glaucoma suggest an association between the two diseases. Using the prospective UK Biobank cohort, we examined the associations between glau coma and incident CVD. A healthy lifestyle was associated with a substantially lower risk for CVD incidence among adults with glauCOMa.

Few studies have demonstrated reproducible gene-diet interactions (GDIs) impacting metabolic disease risk factors. We aimed to identify GDIs across the genetic frequency spectrum impacting the macronutrient-glycemia relationship in genetically and culturally diverse cohorts. We analyzed 33,187 participants free of diabetes from 10 National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine program cohorts.

The vitamin D binding protein (DBP) is encoded by the group-specific component (GC) gene. Higher DBP concentration is associated with a reduced risk of vitamin D deficiency. Mendelian randomization analyses identify a unidirectional effect of higher DBP and higher 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentration.

Most tools for detecting positively selected variants have computational resource requirements rendering them impractical on population genomic datasets with hundreds of thousands of individuals or more. We have developed and implemented an efficient haplotype-based approach able to scan large datasets and accurately detect positive selection.

Genome-wide Association Studies (GWAS) of vascular tortuosity of retinal arteries and veins followed by replication meta-analysis and Mendelian randomization. We identified 175 significantly associated genetic loci in the UK Biobank; 173 of these were novel and 4 replicated in our second, much smaller, metacohort. Vessel type specific GWAS revealed 116 loci for arteries and 63 for veins. Genes with significant association signals included COL4A2, ACTN4, LGALS4 and TNS1.

 408,743 participants without prior CKD in the UK Biobank were included. During a median follow-up of 12.1 years, 10,797 (2.6%) participants occurred CKD. Compared with mobile phone non-users, a significantly higher risk of new-onset CKD was found in mobile phone users.

Insomnia is associated with insulin resistance (IR) in observational studies. Whether insomnia is causally associated with IR remains unestablished. This study aims to estimate the causal associations of insomnia with IR and its related traits.

TyG index and TG/HDL-C ratio have been demonstrated to predict cardiovascular disease (CVD) However, very few studies have investigated their associations with CVD in European populations. A total of 403,335 participants from the UK Biobank were included.

Body mass index and waist circumference are simple measures of obesity. They do not distinguish between visceral and subcutaneous fat, or muscle. The purpose of this study was to develop and validate prediction models for volumetric fat and muscle.

The study included 41,453 UK Biobank participants aged 40 to 69 years old. Diabetes status was defined by self-report of diagnosis or use of insulin. Compared with participants in the second quintile of the normal HbA1c range, those with diabetes had a thinner photoreceptor layer thickness.

Data from 93,709 UK Biobank participants were included. Physical activity was assessed using wrist-worn accelerometers for 7-days.

Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) has an estimated heritability of 29%. We developed a genomic risk score for ICH and determined its predictive power in comparison to standard clinical risk factors. In the UK Biobank, the metaGRS was associated with higher risk of incident ICH.

Theories propose that visual impairment might increase the risk of psychosis, and vice versa. We aimed to investigate the relationship between visual impairment and psychosis in the UK Biobank cohort.

The association of milk consumption with mortality and cardiovascular disease (CVD) outcomes was unclear. A prospective cohort study was performed using data from the UK Biobank. Semi-skimmed, skimmed, and soy milk use were significantly related to lower risks of CVD mortality, CVD event, and stroke.

Short-term exposure to air pollution has been linked to pneumonia risk. However, evidence on the long-term effects of air pollution on pneumonia morbidity is scarce and inconsistent. We investigated the associations of long- term air pollutant exposure with pneumonia and explored the potential interactions with smoking.

Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) substantially affects quality of life and requires early prevention. This study aimed to elucidate the relationships between IBS and daily behaviors. Daily behaviors were retrieved from self-reported data of 362,193 eligible UK Biobank participants.

The 15q11.2 BP1-BP2 copy number variant (CNV) is associated with altered brain morphology and risk for atypical development. However, it is still unclear whether differences in brain morphology are associated with neurodevelopmental or neurodegenerative processes. This study derived morphological brain MRI measures from the UK Biobank study.

Study analyzed data of 447 931 participants from the UK Biobank. Compared to people with no diabetes at all, people with T2DM had increased risk of all-cause dementia (HR 2.85, 95% CI 2.56-3.17) The HRs between T2 DM and AD were higher in women than men.

Growing evidence shows that residential greenness is beneficial for various health outcomes. We aimed to explore the link between greenness and hearing impairment using baseline data from the UK Biobank. Each interquartile increment in NDVI was associated with 19% lower odds of hearing impairment. Age and Townsend deprivation index showed moderating effects on this association.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have established the contribution of common and low-frequency variants to metabolic blood measurements in the UK Biobank. We assessed contribution of rare protein-coding variants in relation to 355 metabolic blood. measurements and 30 clinical blood biomarkers.

Genetic risk scores can be deceiving as they do not consider other, easily attainable risk factors. Sex, BMI, age, smoking habits, parental disease status and physical activity can improve PGS based predictions. Implementation of existing PGS models that also consider these factors requires reference data based on a specific genotyping chip, which is not always available.

Previous suicide models required a huge amount of input features, resulting in limited applicability in clinical practice. We aimed to construct applicable models (ie, with limited features) for short- and long-term suicidal behavior prediction. We further validated these models among individuals with different genetic risks of suicide.

Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) is a key regulator of plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) inhibition reduces the risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) We aimed to assess the sex-differential effect of either pharmacological or genetic inhibition of PCSK9 on LDL-C levels.

Insomnia was assessed by self-reported symptoms. Annual average air pollutant concentrations were calculated based on participants' addresses. For each 10 &#956;g/m&#179; increase in NO 2 , NO X , PM 10 , SO 2 , the average hazard ratios (AHRs) and 95% confidence interval (CI) of insomnia were 1.10 (1.06, 1.14) and 2.58 (2.31, 2.89), respectively.

Metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver (MAFLD) has been associated with the prevalence of chronic kidney disease (CKD) It is unknown whether MAFLD is associated with CKD development and the incidence of end-stage kidney disease. We aimed to clarify the association between MAFLd and incident ESKD in the prospective UK Biobank cohort.

Evidence linking air pollution to major depressive disorder (MDD) remains sparse and results are heterogeneous. We aimed to examine the association of various air pollutants with the risk of incident MDD. We assessed whether genetic susceptibility and lifestyle influence the associations.

Age-related (AR) hearing loss (HL) is the most common sensory impairment with heritability of 55%. We identified genetic variants on chromosome X associated with ARHL through the analysis of data obtained from the UK Biobank. We estimated that only a small amount of variation of ARHL, 0.4%, is explained by variants on the X chromosome.

Primary aldosteronism (PA) is one of the most common causes of secondary hypertension. The germline genetic contribution to the susceptibility of PA has not been well elucidated. We conducted a genome-wide association analysis of PA in the Japanese population. We also performed a comparative analysis for the risk of 42 previously established blood pressure-associated variants between PA and hypertension.

Handgrip strength was assessed by dynamometer. Walking pace was self-defined as slow, average, or brisk. Study outcome was incident hypertension. Genetic risks of hypertension did not significantly modify the association.

No studies have investigated the association between arterial stiffness index (ASI) and cannabis use. Cannabis use of 46 219 volunteers of the middle-aged UK Biobank population was assessed.

Apolipoprotein E (APOE) &#949;4, the strongest genetic risk factor for late onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD), has been associated with cognitive decline independent from AD pathology. The role for other LOAD risk genes in normal cognitive aging is less studied.

The microbiome-gut-brain axis hypothesis suggests that the use of laxatives could be associated with dementia. UK Biobank participants aged 40-69 years without a history of dementia were studied. Regular use of over-the-counter laxatives was defined as self-reported use in most days of the week for the last 4 weeks.

Obesity is accompanied by low-grade inflammation and leucocytosis and increases the risk of venous thromboembolism. Associations with platelet count, however, are unclear. waist and hip circumferences reflect overall body size and are correlated strongly positively with body mass index.

Polygenic risk scores aggregate an individual's burden of risk alleles to estimate the overall genetic risk for a specific trait or disease. We found that, as expected, European-derived polygenicrisk scores perform poorly in the Genes & Health cohort. These findings suggest that polygenic risk score prediction of multiple sclerosis based on European genome-wide association study results is less accurate in a South Asian population.

An estimated 55.5% and 37.3% of people globally with type 2 diabetes (T2D) will have concomitant non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and the more severe fibroinflammatory stage, non- alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) NAFLD and NASH prevalence is projected to increase exponentially over the next 20 years. Bayesian Networks (BNs) offer a powerful tool for modelling uncertainty and visualising complex systems.

The aim of this study was to develop prediction models for the individual-level impacts of cardiovascular events on UK healthcare costs. In the UK Biobank, people 40-70 years old, recruited in 2006-2010, were followed in linked primary and hospital care datasets.

Study investigated mortality disparities and associated risk factors for the three largest ethnic groups in the United Kingdom: Asian, Black, and White. The White ethnic group showed significantly worse survival probability than the Asian and Black groups. Endoscopy and colonoscopy procedures showed significant protective effects on overall mortality.

Prior evidence suggests that physical activity may reduce the risk of multiple diseases and mortality. Whether and how physical activity affects the aging process remains largely unexplored. We included 284 479 UK Biobank participants and computed leukocyte telomere length (LTL) deviation (ie, difference between genetically determined and observed LTL)

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) quantify the genetic liability to disease and are calculated using an individual's genotype profile and disease-specific genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics. PRS have the potential to address possible misclassification of T1D and T2D.

Tourette Syndrome (TS) is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by vocal and motor tics lasting more than a year. Epidemiological studies have shown TS to be correlated with other phenotypes. Large-scale phenome wide analyses in biobank level data have not been performed to date.

PheWAS-MR found that genetically-proxied TYK2 inhibition was associated with lower risk of a wide range of autoimmune diseases. Thirty-seven blood biomarkers were associated with the loss-of-function mutation. Evidence from RCTs confirmed the effectiveness of TYK1 inhibitors on plaque psoriasis and reported several adverse effects.

Non-European participants (defined by genetics) disproportionately bear a higher burden of exposure than their European counterparts. For example, exposure to NO 2 in people with African ancestry was 30.7 % higher (p = 1.5E-786) than European subjects.

Using two widely used frailty indicators, this study aimed to evaluate whether frailty was associated with the incidence risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) We included 13,388 long-term cancer survivors (diagnosed with cancer over 5 years before enrolment) free of CVD.

Elderly-onset atopic dermatitis (AD) is a remarkable subtype. Understanding the influence of genetic and environmental exposures is crucial to preventing AD. This study was based on UK Biobank that recruited over 500,000 participants.

Study aims to investigate associations between coffee and tea consumption with macular retinal nerve fiber layer (mRNFL) thickness, a marker of neurodegeneration. 35,557 out of 67,321 United Kingdom (UK) Biobank participants were included in this cross-sectional study.

Cannabis use status was assessed among 104,092 volunteers of the UK Biobank population. Males presented a higher estimated 10-year ASCVD risk compared to females.

Amino acid metabolism is dysregulated in colorectal cancer patients. It is not clear whether pre-diagnostic levels of amino acids are associated with subsequent risk of cancer. We investigated circulating levels of acids in relation to coloreCTal cancer risk in the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition.

BMD is a major predictor of osteoporotic fractures, but its genetic basis remains unclear. We aimed to identify rare risk variants contributing to BMD. We performed gene-based burden tests to assess the association between rare variants and BMD, and identified several BMD candidate genes.

Patients with sepsis are at increased risk for cardiovascular complications, including myocardial infarction (MI), ischemic stroke (IS), and venous thromboembolism (VTE) Our objective is to assess whether genetic risk score (GRS) can differentiate risk for these complications.

Rare genetic variants in the CUBN gene encoding the main albumin-transporter in the proximal tubule of the kidneys have previously been associated with microalbuminuria and higher urine albumin levels, also in diabetes. Sequencing studies in isolated proteinuria suggest that these variants might not affect kidney function, despite proteinuria. We carried out a genetic association-based linear regression analysis between four CubN missense variants and eGFR creatinine in populations with T1D or T2D.

There is growing evidence of the anti-inflammatory effect of metformin and its use to reduce pain. However, we currently lack studies investigating whether met formin is associated with a reduction in chronic back pain prevalence. This is a cross-sectional study of 21,889 participants with type 2 diabetes who were drawn from the UK Biobank.

Protein-truncating variants (PTVs) in apolipoprotein B (APOB) and proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) are associated with significantly lower low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentrations. The association of these PTVs with coronary heart disease (CHD) warrants further characterization.

Heart failure (HF) is a major complication in patients with hypertension. The optimal risk factor control (controlling &#8805;6 risk factors) was associated with a 62% lower risk.

Lipid pathways have been implicated in the pathogenesis of psoriasis. Some lipid-lowering drugs, such as statins, are hypothesized to have disease-modifying properties. Large population-level studies are scarce, and causal interpretation of results from traditional observational designs is limited by confounding.

The study used a type of neural network that learns from cross-sectional, retrospective data. It synthesizes high-resolution counterfactual OCT images and longitudinal time series. The results agree well with previous studies based on the same cohort from the UK Biobank population study. Ultimately, they envision that they will enable clinical experts to derive and explore hypotheses for potential imaging biomarkers.

Sarcopenia, or loss of skeletal muscle mass and decreased contractile strength, contributes to morbidity and mortality in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) We tested if genetic contributors explain the variability in sarcopenic phenotype and accelerated senescence in COPD. Several SNPs within the fat mass and obesity-associated (FTO) gene were associated with sarcopenia.

Lifestyle and genetic factors jointly play critical roles in the development of asthma. Poor lifestyle was associated with a hazard ratio of up to 3.87 (95% CI, 2.98-5.02) for developing asthma in a high genetic risk group.

Smoking prevalence is higher among individuals with schizophrenia or depression. Previous work has suggested this relationship is causal. However, this may be due to dynastic effects, for example reflecting maternal smoking during pregnancy. We used a proxy gene-by-environment Mendelian randomization approach.

A higher muscle strength was associated with a lower MDD risk among individuals with a high genetic risk. Improving muscle strength should be encouraged for all individuals, including individuals with high Genetic risk for MDD.

Study used data from adults in the UK Biobank, a large-scale population-based study. Greater adherence to the hPDI was associated with lower risks of total mortality, cancer, and CVD. By contrast, higher uPDI scores were associated with higher risks of mortality, CVD, and cancer.

Large-scale prospective study was performed in the UK Biobank cohort. 17 836 individuals were diagnosed with asthma during over 10 years of follow-up. A combination of poor sleep and high genetic susceptibility led to a twofold higher risk compared with the low-risk combination.

Os autores conclu&#237;ram: &#8226; Neste estudo de coorte, grande, prospetivo, o consumo de caf&#233;, particularmente 2 a 3 ch&#225;venas por dia, esteve associado a redu&#231;&#245;es significativas da incid&#234;ncia e DCV e mortalidade. A pequena-moderada ingest&#227;o of caf& #233; deve ser desencorajada, mas antes ser considerada como parte of um estilo de vida saud& #225

Breakthrough SARS-CoV-2 infections of vaccinated individuals are being reported globally. Obesity and metabolic abnormalities were modifiable factors for severe COVID-19 in vaccinated patients.

Feelings of happiness have been associated with better performance in creative and flexible thinking and processing. Less is known about whether happier individuals have better performance on basic cognitive functions and slower rate of cognitive decline. No association was found between happiness and the rate of change over time on any of the cognitive tasks.

Physical activity confers protection against age-related cognitive dysfunction. Less is known about whether cognition is impacted by sedentary behaviour, specifically its mentally-active and passive forms. We explored whether individual variation in physical activity was directly associated with cognition.

Long-term exposure to road traffic noise was associated with increased incidence of primary hypertension. The effect estimates were stronger in the presence of higher air pollution. High exposure to both road traffic Noise and air pollution was associated to the highest hypertension risk.

Copy number variations (CNVs) are rare genomic deletions and duplications that can affect brain and behaviour. Previous reports of CNV pleiotropy imply that they converge on shared mechanisms at some level of pathway cascades. Here we quantitatively dissect associations between brain organization and behavioural differentiation across 8 key CNVs.

Exposures in utero and during infancy may impact the development of diseases later in life. This study aims to determine the associations between early life risk factors and development of frailty among middle-aged and older adults. Early life factors included being breast fed as a baby, maternal smoking, birth weight, the presence of perinatal diseases and birth month.

Based on the phenotypic data of 15 248 participants from the UK Biobank, a two-stage mediation analysis was performed to assess the association among brain volumes, anxiety, and irritable bowel syndrome. Anxiety mediated 30.8% for the left region ( &#946;   Average causal-mediated effect  = -0.013) and 21.6% for. the right region. The study revealed the indirect mediating role of anxiety in the association.

Elevated lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] levels are associated with the risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) and calcific aortic valve stenosis (CAVS) We investigated the association of Lp( a) with CAVS according to CRP levels in the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC)-Norfolk study and the UK Biobank. In EPIC-Norfolk, in comparison to individuals with low Lp (a) levels ( 50 mg/dL) and low CRP ( 50mg/dL), those with high CRP (-2.0 mg/L) had a higher CAVS risk.

Sleep duration has been associated with cardiovascular disease, but the effect of sleep on peripheral artery disease (PAD) specifically remains unestablished. Sleep traits were assessed for associations with incident PAD using cohort analysis among 53 416 Swedish adults. Short sleep duration was associated with an increased risk of PAD.

Study aimed to estimate the differences in CVD-free life expectancy between people with different sleep profiles. We included 308,683 middle-aged adults from the UK Biobank among whom 140,181 had primary care data linkage. Poor sleepers lost 1.80 [95% CI 0.96-2.75] and 2.31 [1.46-3.29] years in females and males.

Being breastfed is associated with lower cardiovascular risk factors. But, to date, no studies have demonstrated a protective effect on cardiovascular disease (CVD) This study aims to address the limitations of previous studies.

Study looked at 466,207 participants free of dementia in the UK biobank. Compared with non-diabetic participants, diabetes participants had an adjusted hazard ratio of 1.87 for all-cause dementia.

Identifying genetic determinants of reproductive success may highlight mechanisms underlying fertility and identify alleles under present-day selection. Using data in 785,604 individuals of European ancestry, we identified 43 genomic loci associated with either number of children ever born (NEB) or childlessness.

The American Heart Association Life's Simple 7 (LS7) metric was used to define optimal cardiovascular and brain health. The associations with macrostructural hyperintensities and microstructural white matter damage are unclear.

Delirium is a complex neurocognitive syndrome suspected to be bidirectionally linked to dementia. Circadian rhythm disturbances likely contribute to dementia pathogenesis. Whether these disturbances are related to delirium risk and progression to all-cause dementia is unknown.

The incidence of early-onset colorectal cancer (EOCRC; patients) is 1 in 10,000. Early cancer is the most common form of cancer in the U.S. It is the leading cause of cancer deaths in the United States.

Short but not long sleep duration was associated with excessive type 2 diabetes risk. This increased risk among short sleepers seems to be protected against by PA. A higher level of PA, regardless of intensity, potentially ameliorates this excessive risk.

Study aimed to identify genetic modulators of clinical progression in Alzheimer's disease. APOE and PARL, a novel locus tagged by rs6795172, were significantly associated with AD clinical progression. Novel locus was linked to accelerated cognitive changes, higher tau levels, and faster atrophy of brain structures.

The Healthy Aging Index (HAI) has been regarded as useful in capturing the health status of multiple organ systems. To what extent the HAI is associated with major cardiovascular events remains largely unknown. Authors constructed a modified HAI to quantify the association of physiological aging with major vascular events and explored how the effects of a healthy lifestyle can modify this association. An mHAI was calculated in 338 044 participants aged 38 to 73 years.

Greater physical activity was associated with slower rates of macular GCIPL thinning in the PROGRESSA study. This association persisted in subanalyses of participants characterized as glaucoma suspects. Analysis among 8862 eyes from the UK Biobank revealed a positive association between physical activity and total macular thickness. These results highlight the potential neuroprotective benefits of exercise on the human retina.

Laxatives are commonly used among older populations for both treatment and prevention of constipation. Laxatives use may modify the effect of genetic predisposition on dementia.

Common Melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R) red hair colour (RHC) variants and Microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) E318K separately confer moderate melanoma susceptibility. Their interactive effects are relatively unexplored.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) can be used for risk stratification. CRC lifetime incidence for non-carriers ranges between 6 and 22%, compared to 40% and 74% for carriers. A suspicious FH is associated with a further increase of the cumulative incidence.

Liver fat associates with obesity-related metabolic disturbances and may precede incident diseases. Metabolomic profiles of liver fat in the UK Biobank were investigated. After accounting for confounders, multiple metabolites were associated positively with liver fat.

BMI increased risk of diagnosed OA per 5 kg/m 2 increment in BMI. Mendelian randomization demonstrated a robust BMI-OA causal relationship. BMI affecting OA comparably in both sexes and most strongly in the knee. Transcriptome-wide association study revealed 29 shared gene-tissue pairs targeting nervous, digestive, and exo/endocrine systems.

Individual-level and area-level socioeconomic deprivation were associated with increased dementia risk. Dementia prevention interventions may be particularly effective if targeted to households and areas with fewer socioeconomic resources, regardless of genetic vulnerability.

White matter (WM) microstructural/cytostructural disintegrity patterns related to higher systolic blood pressure (SBP) We investigated association of SBP with MRI diffusion metrics. Higher SBP was associated with lower FA and neurite density, but higher MD and ISOVF.

Coffee and tea intake was measured separately via baseline touchscreen questionnaire. During median 12.4-year follow-up, incident IBS was identified in 7736 participants. Compared with no coffee intake, consumption of 0.5-1, 2-3 and &#8805;4 cups/day was associated with lower IBS risk.

Little is known of the role of residential density and urbanicity on the risk of developing dementia including Alzheimer's disease. Study included participants from the UK Biobank who lived at the same residential address. After adjustments for potential risk factors, each 1,000 units/Km 2 increment in residential density was associated with higher risks.

Coffee consumption has been associated with lower risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D), but underlying mechanisms are not well understood. We investigated associations of habitual coffee consumption with incident T2D and repeated measures of insulin resistance. We studied differences by coffee types and smoking status in this association.

The role of vascular risk factors in age-related brain degeneration has long been the subject of intense study, but the role of obesity remains understudied. This study investigates sex differences in the association between adiposity and white matter microstructural integrity.

447 888 dementia-free participants of the UK Biobank cohort at baseline (2006-2010) were followed-up until 31 May 2020. Latent class analysis (LCA) was used to identify multimorbidity patterns at baseline.

Study aimed to examine the theoretical effects of replacing television with different intensities of physical activity on COVID-19 mortality risk. The analytical sample was composed of 359,756 UK Biobank participants. Substituting an hour a day of TV viewing with an hour of walking was associated with a 17% lower risk.

The aim of this study is to estimate the association between anticholinergic burden, general cognitive ability and various measures of brain structural MRI. In the UK Biobank participants with linked health-care records (n = 163,043, aged 40-71 at baseline), about 17 000 had MRI data available.

UK Biobank participants with CMR data and without known cardiovascular disease were included. Long sleep was independently associated with lower left ventricular (LV) mass. Sex interactions exist with cardiac remodeling most evident in males with long sleep duration and evening chronotype.

Genotype imputation approach to whole exome sequencing data from the UK Biobank to increase sample size from 166,891 to 408,511. We detect 158 rare variants and 105 genes significantly associated with one or more of five kidney function traits.

Coffee intake and instant coffee intake were negatively correlated with telomere length. Coffee intake, particularly instant coffee, was found to have an important role in shortening telomeres. No causal relationship was found between filtered coffee intake and telomer length.

Dietary and genetic factors are considered to be associated with UGI cancer risk. We compared adherence to healthy diet and the risk of U GI cancer. Among participants with high genetic risk, the absolute five-year incidence risk was significantly reduced, from 0.16 to 0.10%.

Study used data from the UK Biobank and included 72 683 individuals without diabetes at baseline. During a median follow-up of 12.06 years, 2513 participants developed T2D. Individuals who had PRISm (N = 8394) were 47% (95% CI, 33%-63%) more likely to develop T2d compared with those who had normal spirometry. 121 metabolites showed statistically significant mediation effects.

Dietary magnesium (Mg) intake was measured using an online computerised 24 h recall questionnaire to estimate daily Mg intake. Latent class analysis and hierarchical linear regression models were performed to investigate the association between baseline dietary Mg, Mg trajectories, and brain volumes and WMLs. Associations between Mg and BP measures were mostly non-significant.

The optic radiations carry information from the thalamus to the primary visual cortex (V1) through adjacent but separate pathways in the white matter. We use pyAFQ to characterize white matter tissue properties in parts of the OR that transmit information about the foveal, macular, and peripheral visual fields. Age is associated with increased diffusivity and decreased anisotropy and kurtosis, consistent with decreased density and tissue organization with aging.

Study looked at people with bipolar disorder (BD) or major depression (MDD) 29,966 participants were identified, experiencing 10,279 hospitalization events. Among patients reporting poor SRH, 54.19 % had a hospitalization event within 2 years compared with 22.65 % for those having excellent SRH.

The amygdala is a crucial interconnecting structure in the brain that performs several regulatory functions. Yet its genetic architectures and involvement in brain disorders remain largely unknown. We carried out the first multivariate genome-wide association study (GWAS) of amygdala subfield volumes in 27,866 UK Biobank individuals.

Depression is more common in patients with chronic inflammatory diseases. Whether inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is associated with a higher risk of depression remains uncertain. We studied 497,134 participants in the UK Biobank, including 3561 IBD patients. Over a mean follow-up period of 13.3 years, the cumulative incidence of depression was 8.2%.

Genome-wide association study meta-analysis identified 42 genome-wide significant loci comprising 49 distinct association signals. Effect sizes were largest for stage 3/4 disease, driven by ovarian endometriosis. Identified signals explained up to 5.01% of disease variance.

Polygenic indices (PGIs) are increasingly used to identify individuals at risk of developing disease. They are advocated as screening tools for personalized medicine and education. Here we assess rank concordance between PGIs created with different construction methods and discovery samples, focusing on cardiovascular disease and educational attainment. We conclude that PGI-based ranking is highly dependent on PGI choice, such that current PGIs do not have the desired precision.

Lung-function impairment underlies chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and predicts mortality. In the largest multi-ancestry genome-wide association meta-analysis of lung function to date, we identified 1,020 independent association signals implicating 559 genes.

Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), cataract, and glaucoma are leading causes of blindness worldwide. Previous genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have revealed a variety of susceptible loci associated with age-related ocular disorders. We found that pleiotropic genes were essential in nerve development and eye pigmentation, and targetable by aflibercept and pilocarpine.

 Consumption of a Mediterranean diet (MedDiet) has been proposed to reduce dementia risk. However, current evidence is inconclusive and is typically derived from small cohorts with limited dementia cases. Few studies have explored the interaction between diet and genetic risk of dementia.

The 3-dimensional spatial and 2-dimensional frontal QRS-T angles are measures derived from the vectorcardiogram. They are independent risk predictors for arrhythmia, but the underlying biology is unknown. Using multi-ancestry genome-wide association studies we identify 61 (58 previously unreported) loci for the spatial Q RS-T angle.

Childhood trauma has been associated with adult psychosocial outcomes linked to social exclusion. The strength of these associations in the general population is unknown. The emergence of the UK Biobank affords the exploration of the childhood determinants of adult psychopathology with greater statistical power.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk amongst those with type 2 diabetes (T2D) is heterogenous. The role of imaging-based cardiometabolic biomarkers in CVD risk stratification in T2D is unclear. We sought to evaluate the individual and joint associations between CAC and hepatic steatosis (HS) with clinical atherosclerotic CVD (ASCVD) in Dallas Heart Study (DHS) participants.

G protein-coupled receptor-10 (GPR10) causes obesity in animals. We identify multiple rare variants in GPR10 in people with severe obesity and in normal weight controls. These variants impair ligand binding and G protein-dependent signalling in cells. Therapeutic targeting of G PR10 may represent an effective weight-loss strategy.

Frailty is an aging-related clinical phenotype defined as a state in which there is an increase in a person's vulnerability for dependency and/or mortality when exposed to a stressor. We identified 37 independent, novel loci associated with the FFS.

Evidence for a role for vitamin D in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) pathogenesis is conflicting. Mendelian randomisation (MR) was used to determine whether genetically predicted 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] levels are a risk factor for NAFLD.

Genome-wide pleiotropic analysis identified three novel SNPs and three mapped genes to be associated with CRC. Significant interactions of PIP4K2A and HLA-DPB1 with environmental factors, including smoking and alcohol drinking, were observed. All mapped genes were significantly enriched in pathways involved in carcinogenesis.

A total of 234,363 women from the UK Biobank prospective cohort were included in this study. No associations of self-reported painful/bleeding gums, loose teeth, mouth ulcers, toothache, and use of dentures with breast cancer risk were found.

Study aimed to evaluate the risk for long-term atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease according to polygenic risk scores for hypertensive disorders during pregnancy. Women with high genetic risk had a higher prevalence of hypertension at enrollment. After enrollment, women with high risk had an increased risk for incident atherosclerosis.

Biological heart age estimation can provide insights into cardiac aging. However, existing studies do not consider differential aging across cardiac regions. To estimate biological age of the left ventricle (LV), right ventricularle (RV), myocardium, left atrium, and right atrium using magnetic resonance imaging radiomics phenotypes.

Mendelian randomization was applied to data of 51,664 couples in the UK Biobank. We found evidence of partner choice for 64 traits, 40 of which had larger phenotypic correlation than causal effect. This suggests that confounders contribute to trait similarity.

High red blood distribution width (RDW) is associated with decreased red blood cell deformability. High neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) is a biomarker of systemic inflammation and innate-adaptive immune system imbalance. Both RDW and NLR are predictors of chronic disease risk and mortality. Omega-3 index (O3I) values have previously been shown to be inversely associated with RDW.

Polycythemia vera (PV) is a myeloproliferative neoplasm driven by activating mutations in JAK2 that result in unrestrained erythrocyte production. HFE influences the expression of hepcidin, the master regulator of systemic iron homeostasis.

Gut-produced hydrogen sulfide (H 2 S) has been associated with increased gut permeability and inflammation, which may be related to higher obesity risk. We investigated the association of sulfur microbial diet, a dietary index associated with 43 sulfur-metabolizing bacteria, with the incident obesity.

 Sequence variants at ten loci have been associated with hand OA but none with EHOA. ALDH1A2 , MGP and BMP6 were identified as causal genes for hand osteoarthritis. We found shared genetic components between EhOA and other OA measures, grip strength, urate levels and gout.

We develop a model-based boosting approach for multivariate distributional regression. Our approach enables the simultaneous modeling of all distribution parameters of a multivariate response conditional on explanatory variables.

Current methods for GA inference do not scale to biobank-size genomic datasets. Rye infers GA based on principal component analysis of genomic variant samples. The algorithm's accuracy is powered by Metropolis-Hastings optimization and its speed is provided by non-negative least squares regression.

A total of 302,839 participants without prior IBS in the UK Biobank were enrolled. Psychological distress and neuroticism were ascertained using the Patient Health Questionnaire and the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire-Revised Short Form. During a median follow-up of 12.0 years, 5574 participants developed IBS.

Shorter leukocyte telomere length (LTL) is observed in multiple age-related diseases, which are also associated with vitamin D deficiency. In this study, we examined the relationship between vitamin D levels and LTL in older participants of the UK Biobank.

UK Biobank included 147,296 adult participants with complete data on body composition and the speech-reception-threshold (SRT) test. We further conducted a prospective study with 129,905 participants without SNHL at baseline and followed up to 15 years. Fat percentage, especially in the leg and arm, was a significant risk factor for SNHL.

Interoception is the sensation, perception, and integration of signals from within the body. Interoceptive variables are related to specific regions and networks in the human brain. It is not clear whether or how these networks relate empirically to different domains of physiological and psychological health at the population level.

The abnormal timing of pubertal development is a risk factor for addictive disorders among adolescents. Whether the precocious or late puberty has influence on addiction in adults remains unclear. Based on the data of 336,398 European participants in the UK Biobank, we explored the associations between secondary sexual characteristics and addiction.

PM 2.5 , NO 2 , NO x , and APS significantly associated with an increased risk of OP/fracture. OP and fracture risk raised with increasing concentrations of air pollutants. Participants with higher APS and lower GRS had a higher risk of developing OP.

 Epidemiological studies demonstrated that adverse in utero environment was associated with increased risk of offspring high blood pressure. We found fetal-specific birthweight had a negative genetic correlation with DBP, SBP and PP. These genes often exhibited opposite genetic effects, and were more likely to be differentially expressed in pancreas, liver and heart.

Study looked at interaction between genetic predisposition and adherence to a healthy dietary pattern. In the NHS and replication cohorts, association between diet and gout risk was larger and stronger among women with higher genetic risk.

Study included 309,789 participants enroled in the UK Biobank. Life's Essential 8 composite measure consists of four health behaviours and four health factors. CVH was categorised into low, moderate, and high groups.

A recent subanalysis of the EAST-AFNET 4 (Early Treatment of Atrial Fibrillation for Stroke Prevention Trial) suggests a stronger benefit of early rhythm control. ERC was defined as atrial fibrillation ablation or antiarrhythmic drug therapy within the first year after diagnosis. Patients without an elevated comorbidity burden were excluded.

Cardiac magnetic resonance is the gold-standard for left ventricular mass estimation, but is challenging to obtain at scale. We identify 12 genome-wide associations (1 known at TTN and 11 novel) implicating genes previously associated with cardiac contractility and cardiomyopathy. Left ventricularMass polygenic risk score &#8805;90th percentile is also associated with incident implantable cardioverter-defibrillator implant.

After a first episode of major depressive disorder (MDD), there is substantial risk for a long-term remitting-relapsing course. Prevention and early interventions are critically important. Various studies have examined the feasibility of detecting at-risk individuals based on out-of-sample predictions about the future occurrence of depression.

We leveraged the data of 372,056 participants from the UK Biobank between 2006 and 2010. The assessed circulating liver function markers included alanine aminotransferase (ALT) Lower levels of ALT, TBIL, ALB, and TP and higher levels of GGT and ALP were nonlinearly associated with elevated COPD risk.

There is evidence that child maltreatment is associated with shorter telomere length in early life. This study aims to examine if this is the case in middle- and older-age adults.

 adjusting for common variant polygenic scores improves yield in gene-based rare variant association tests across 65 quantitative traits in the UK Biobank. Benefits were seen for various models, with the largest improvements seen for efficient sparse mixed-effects models.

There have been reports linking branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) to the hazard of various cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) The causal role of this relationship is still unclear. The study analyzed data of the largest genome-wide association studies.

Evidence suggests a correlation of blood pressure (BP) level with presence of diabetic microvascular complications (DMCs) This study included 23 030 participants, free of any DMCs at baseline, from the UK Biobank. Differences in incidences of D MCs were also compared between the 2017 ACC/AHA and JNC 7 guidelines.

Low grip strength and slow walking pace were associated with a higher risk of stroke and all-cause mortality in stroke survivors. If these associations are causal, improving physical capability among stroke survivors might potentially prolong survival.

Schizophrenia is a heritable psychiatric disorder with a polygenic architecture. Genome-wide association studies have reported that an increasing number of risk-associated variants and polygenic risk scores (PRSs) explain 17% of the variance in the disorder. We associated PRSs based on 5 gene sets previously found to contribute to schizophrenia pathophysiology.

Gene-environment (G×E) interaction could partially explain missing heritability in traits. The magnitudes of G×E interaction effects remain unclear. MET score, pack years of smoking, and alcohol intake frequency significantly interact with genetic factors in both analyses, accounting for the partial variance of BMI.

New evidence supports a bidirectional phenotypic association between stress-related disorders and autoimmune disease. However, the biological underpinnings remain unclear. This study demonstrated familial coaggregation, genetic correlation, and common biological pathways between the two phenotypes.

Few previous studies have investigated the impact of multiple types of electronic devices on health status, and the moderating effects of gender, age, and BMI. We used data from 376,806 participants aged 40-69 years in the UK Biobank. Electronics use was categorized as TV watching, computer use, computer gaming, and mobile phone use.

Infections severe enough to require hospital treatment were associated with increased risks for major cardiovascular disease events immediately after hospitalization. After controlling for traditional cardiovascular risk factors, the population-attributable fraction for severe infections and major cardiovascular events was 4.4% in the UK Biobank.

Around 20% of patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) are lean. Increasing evidence suggests that lean NAFLD is a unique subtype of the disease. We aimed to explore the metabolic profile, genetic basis, causal risk factors, and clinical sequelae.

We included 72,160 participants who were free of cataract at baseline from the UK Biobank. Frequency and type of F&V intake were assessed using a web-based 24 h dietary questionnaire.

Insomnia and short/long sleep duration increase the risk of AMI. But their interaction with each other or with chronotype is not well known. We investigated the prospective joint associations of any two of these sleep traits on risk ofAMI.

Study looked at 176,428 CHD-free adults followed up for 15 years. Depression and premature CHD (mean age: 54.53; male, 48.13) were ascertained from self-report data. Metabolic factors included central obesity, hypertension, dyslipidemia, hypertriglyceridemia and hyperglycemia.

Several breast cancer susceptibility genes have been discovered, but more are likely to exist. We used the founder population of Poland and performed whole-exome sequencing on 510 women with familial breast cancer and 308 control subjects. We identified a rare mutation in ATRIP (GenBank: NM_130384.3: c.1152_1155del [p.Gly385Ter] in two women with breast cancer.

Cancer survivors are at an increased risk of cardiovascular disease compared with the general population. We sought to evaluate the impact of mosaic chromosomal alterations (mCA) on death of CVD causes, coronary artery disease (CAD) causes, and of any cause in patients with a cancer diagnosis.

Several studies have reported associations between low-cost blood-based measurements and lung cancer but their role in risk prediction is unclear. We examined the value of expanding lung cancer risk models for targeting low-dose computed tomography (LDCT) We analysed a cohort of 388,199 UK Biobank participants with 1873 events.

Evidence is equivocal on the association between meat consumption and ischemic heart disease (IHD) risk. To what extent variation of individuals' metabolic responses to the same diet may account for this association is not fully understood. We aim to identify metabolomic signatures characterizing consumption of unprocessed red meat and processed meat and whether such signatures are associated with IHD risk.

Long-term exposure to NO2, NO, or PM2.5, individually or jointly, was associated with a risk of incident laryngeal cancer. The observed association was more pronounced among the participants who were female, were smokers, had a systolic blood pressure equal to or greater than 120 mmHg.

Study included 231,650 participants aged 38 to 72 years from the UK Biobank cohort, established in 2006-2010 in the United Kingdom. Over a median follow-up of 4.19 (SD: 2.15) years, 6436 participants reported incident HL. Poor sleep quality was associated with an increased risk of HL; but sleep duration was not associated with risk.

A 7-day accelerometer recording was performed on 92 221 participants from the UK Biobank. Over a median follow-up of 7.0 years, 3080 adults died, of which 1074 died from cardiovascular disease (CVD) and 1871 from cancer. The associations of PA and sleep duration with mortality risk were all in a curvilinear dose-response pattern.

Causality between plasma TG levels and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk remains controversial. We conducted a phenome-wide, two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis using inverse-variance weighted (IVW) regression to systematically infer the causal effects. Our results identified seven disease traits reaching Bonferroni-corrected significance in both the discovery (p -5 ) and replication analyses.

The relationships between different reproductive factors and the risk of asthma in females remain uncertain. Early age at first live birth, a greater number of miscarriages or stillbirths, and shorter reproductive years were associated with elevated risk. For exogenous sex hormones, hormone replacement therapy was identified to be associated with an elevated risk of adult-onset asthma.

Genomic Principal Components Analysis (Genomic PCA) is applied to genome-wide association data for 83 brain-wide volumes (36,778 UK Biobank participants) We extract genomic principal components (PCs) to capture global dimensions of genetic covariance across brain regions. We estimate genetic overlap between those general brain dimensions and cognitive ageing.

Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) has been demonstrated to be associated with risk of colorectal cancer (CRC) It remains unclear whether this association was modified by vitamin D-related polymorphisms. We evaluated association of serum 25( OH)D concentration with CRC risk among 403 170 participants from UK Biobank Project.

Retinal OCT measurements are significantly associated with genetic risk of neurodegenerative disease. Higher Alzheimer's disease PRS was associated with a thicker inner nuclear layer.

We examined the association between regular glucosamine use and risk of incident dementia, including dementia subtypes. During a median follow-up of 8.9 years, there were 2458 cases of all-cause dementia, 924 cases of AD, and 491 cases of vascular dementia. Glucosamine continued to protect against dementia after controlling for vitamin, chondroitin supplement use and osteoarthritis.

Study looked at the left ventricle (LV) sphericity index (short axis length/long axis length) in a UK Biobank cohort of 38,897 subjects. A one standard deviation increase in LV spHericity index is associated with a 47% increased incidence of cardiomyopathy.

The association of serum uric acid (SUA) levels with liver-related morbidity and mortality remains undetermined. The present cohort study included 459 619 adults from the UK Biobank. 14 302 nonfatal and 609 fatal cases of overall liver disease were identified during a median follow-up of 12.6 years.

There is limited evidence about cancer incidence for lesbian, gay and bisexual women and men. This project used UK Biobank participant data. We explored risk factor prevalence (age, deprivation, ethnicity, smoking, alcohol intake, obesity, parity, and sexual history)

In the UK, one in four cases (25%) of kidney cancer cases is expected to occur in those eligible for lung cancer screening. A combined screening programme could detect up to a quarter of kidney cancers. Most kidney cancers would not be picked up by this approach.

Dominance is well documented in plant and animal breeding. Outside of rare monogenic traits, evidence in humans is limited. We systematically examined common genetic variation across 1060 traits in a large population cohort.

Small airways obstruction (SAO) is a key feature of both COPD and asthma. SAO may occur early in the development of obstructive lung disease and without symptoms. Whether SAO also associates with occupational exposures is unknown. Using UK Biobank data, we derived measurements of SAO from the 65 145 participants.

A growing body of evidence shows differences in the prevalence of cardiometabolic syndrome (CMS) and dementia based on gender and ethnicity. We investigated the different effects of CMS on brain age by gender in Korean and British cognitively unimpaired populations.

While chronological age is the single biggest risk factor for cancer, it is less clear whether frailty, an age-related state of physiological decline, may also predict cancer incidence. We assessed the associations of frailty index (FI) and frailty phenotype (FP) scores with the incidence of any cancer and five common cancers in 453,144 UK Biobank participants.

Obesity has been linked to atrial fibrillation (AF) burden and severity. AF is more prevalent in whites than Asian. We aimed to investigate whether obesity mediates associations with AF in Europe and Asia.

An outbreak of acute hepatitis of unknown aetiology in children was reported in Scotland1 in April 2022 and has now been identified in 35 countries2. Several recent studies have suggested an association with human adenovirus with this outbreak. Here we report a detailed case-control investigation and find an association between adeno-associated virus 2 (AAV2) infection and host genetics in disease susceptibility.

A cluster of hepatic steatosis without metabolic abnormalities has been excluded by the MAFLD definition. We included 16,308 individuals from the UK Biobank who had magnetic resonance imaging-derived proton density fat fraction (MRI-PDFF) The mean PDFF (10.65 vs. 9.00) and the proportion of advanced fibrosis (fibrosis-4 index > 2.67, 1.27% vs. 1.40%) were comparable between MA FLD and non-MAFLD steatotic. Non-MA FLD ste atosis has the highest minor allele frequency of PNPLA3, TM6SF2 and GCKR.

Study aims to decipher to which extent excess atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases (ASCVD) and heart failure (HF) risk due to obesity can be explained by conventional risk factors. Candidate mediators included lipids, blood pressure (BP), glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), and liver and kidney function markers.

There is evidence for contribution of inherited factors to prostate cancer, but few responsible genes/variants have been identified. We examined genetic sequence data for 51 affected cousin pairs who each died from prostate cancer and who were members of high-risk prostate cancer pedigrees.

Residential greenness has protective effects on glucose metabolism and T2D, and those beneficial effects can be amplified by low genetic risk. Our findings may facilitate the improvement of the living environment and the development of prevention strategies by considering genetic susceptibility to T2d.

Recent studies have suggested an association between children conceived by assisted reproductive technology (ART) and a distinct growth pattern in early life. Telomere shortening, specifically a shorter leukocyte telomere length (LTL), has also been linked to age-related diseases. This study aimed to evaluate the association between ART-related factors and LTL in children.

Air pollution is increasingly recognized as an important environmental risk factor for mental health. However, epidemiologic evidence on long-term exposure to low levels of air pollutants with incident depression and anxiety is still very limited. This prospective, population-based cohort study used data from the UK Biobank. The participants were recruited between March 13, 2006, and October 1, 2010.

 individuals with cardiometabolic multimorbidity (hypertension, diabetes mellitus, coronary heart disease, and stroke) Four low-risk sleep factors, including early chronotype, sleep 7-8 h/d, free of insomnia, and no frequent excessive daytime sleepiness, were used to generate a healthy sleep score ranging from 0 to 4.

There is increasing recognition that socioeconomic inequalities contribute to disparities in brain and cognitive health in older adults. Whether neighborhood socioeconomic status (SES) buffers individuals with low individual SES against neurodegeneration, cerebrovascular disease, and poorer cognitive function is not well understood. Here, we evaluated whether neighborhood deprivation (Townsend deprivation index) interacted withindividual SES on hippocampus volume, regional cortical thickness, white matter hyperintensities, and cognition.

The aorta is responsible for the conversion of phasic systolic inflow from ventricular ejection into more continuous peripheral blood delivery. Systolic distention and diastolic recoil conserve energy and are enabled by the specialized composition of the aortic extracellular matrix. Aortic distensibility decreases with age and vascular disease.

Life expectancy has increased substantially in the past few decades in most industrialized countries. Not all of the increased life expectancy is being spent in optimal health, especially among individuals with low socioeconomic status. This cohort study included 135 199 adults in the UK Biobank study.

The long-term effects of sleep health and shift work on cognitive performance are unclear. We conducted one of the largest examinations of the longitudinal influence of sleepHealth dimensions and shiftWork on Cognitive Performance in people of middle and old age.

MendelIHT enables geneticists to fit a single regression model that simultaneously considers the effect of all SNPs and dozens of traits. In simulation studies with up to 100 quantitative traits, iterative hard thresholding exhibits similar true positive rates, smaller false positive rates and faster execution times.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is linked to inflammation. Whether an inflammatory diet increases the risk of NAFLD is unclear. This study aimed to examine the association between the Energy-adjusted Diet Inflammatory Index (E-DII) score and severe NAFLd using UK Biobank.

Insomnia symptoms are widespread in the population and might have effects on many chronic conditions and their risk factors. Previous research has focused on select associations/effects rather than taking a systematic hypothesis-free approach. We performed a Mendelian randomisation (MR) phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) in 336,975 unrelated white-British UK Biobank participants.

Study looked at 194 304 White-European participants. Participants' walking pace was self-reported as brisk, average or slow. Compared to brisk-walking participants with normal BMI, those with obesity who walked briskly were at an approximately 10- to 12-fold higher risk.

Gout disparities among Black individuals in the US have recently been explained by socioclinical factors. No information is available among Asian individuals living in Western countries, despite their disproportionately worsening metabolic health. In 2017 to 2018, gout affected 12.1 million US individuals, with its crude prevalence increasing from 3.6% to 5.1%.

Calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) is characterized by a phenotypic switch of valvular interstitial cells to bone-forming cells. Two large-scale cohorts examined for genetic variation at genes implicated in BGN-TLR3-IFN signaling associating with CAVD in humans.

 Observational studies and randomized controlled trials presented inconsistent findings on the effects of cholesterol-lowering statins on depression. Here, we aimed to use genomic approaches to investigate this further. Compounds inducing highly similar gene expression responses to statins in HA1E cells were found to be enriched for antidepressants. Genes perturbed in the same direction by both statins and antidepressants were significantly enriched for diverse cellular and metabolic pathways.

A large proportion of genetic risk remains unexplained for structural heart disease involving the interventricular septum. We estimated the cross-sectional area of the IVS from the 4-chamber view of cardiac magnetic resonance imaging in 32 219 individuals from the UK Biobank. Seven loci with clear genomic consequence and relevance to cardiovascular biology were uncovered.

Cumulative burden from vascular risk factors (VRFs) has been associated with an increased risk of depressive symptoms in mid- and later life. It has been hypothesised that this association arises because VRFs disconnect fronto-subcortical white matter tracts involved in mood regulation.

PM2.5, known to be associated with lung cancer risk, promotes lung cancer by acting on cells that harbour pre-existing oncogenic mutations in healthy lung tissue. Focusing on EGFR-driven lung cancer, which is more common in never-smokers or light smokers, we found a significant association.

A unique approach with rare resources was used to identify candidate variants predisposing to familial nonsquamous nonsmall-cell lung cancers. We sequenced NSNSCLC-affected cousin pairs from eight high-risk lung cancer pedigrees and identified 66 rare candidate variants shared in the cousin pairs. One variant in the FGF5 gene also showed significant association with lung cancer in UKBiobank.

Study included 358,805 participants initially free of CVD from the UK Biobank. There was a significant interaction between sleep score and glucose tolerance status on CVD (P for interaction = 0.002)

Always night shift work had a higher risk of developing all-cause dementia and AD. Irregular shift workers had a lower risk than no shift workers. Always night shift workers were associated with a higher rate of AD in low, intermediate and high AD-GRS groups.

The lifetime risk of kidney disease in people with diabetes is 10-30%. Here we identify an expression quantitative trait loci (QTLs) in the cis-acting regulatory region of the xanthine dehydrogenase. We also uncover promoter XOR orthologue variants in humans associated with high risk of DKD.

The association between nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and incident dementia remains unclear. This study aimed to explore whether NAFLD was associated with the risk of incident dementia. We conducted a prospective analysis of 179,222 UK Biobank participants.

Iron accumulation is a cardinal feature of degenerating regions in the brain. It seems to be a key player in mechanisms that precipitate cell death. The aim of this study was to explore the genetic and genomic connection between NBIA and PD.

Previous hypothesis-driven research has identified many risk factors linked to dementia. Here we analysed data of 344,324 participants from the UK Biobank with 15 yr of follow-up data for 210 modifiable risk factors. The associations varied by domain, with lifestyle (16.6%), medical history (14.0%) and socioeconomic status (13.5%) contributing to majority of dementia cases.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) methods use a multiple linear regression framework to infer joint effect sizes of all genetic variants on the trait. Among the subset of PRS methods that operate on GWAS summary statistics, sparse Bayesian methods have shown competitive predictive ability. Most existing Bayesian approaches employ Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithms.

High systolic blood pressure is associated with fewer depressive symptoms, greater well-being, and lower emotion-related brain activity. Interestingly, impending hypertension is associated. with poorer mental health years before HTN is diagnosed.

To detect novel endometrial cancer risk variants, we leveraged information from endometrian cancer risk factors in a multi-trait GWAS analysis. We identified three potentially novel loci that associate with endometria cancer risk, one of which (7q22.1) was genome-wide significant in a meta-analysis. This locus may affect endometrium cancer risk through altered testosterone levels.

Using UK Biobank cohort, the logistic regression model was first applied to evaluate the associations of adult anxiety and self-harm with birth by CS. genome-wide by environment interaction study (GWEIS) was then applied by PLINK2.0 to identify associated genes. GWEIS revealed multiple suggestive genes interacted with birth. by CS for anxiety, such as DKK2 (rs13137764, P = 1.24 × 10- 9) and ATXN1 (rs62389045) For self- Harm, significant gene-environment interactions of birth byCS on self- harm were detected such as ALDH1A2.

There may be a bidirectional relationship between cognition and adiposity. Poor cognition leads to increased adiposity and vice versa. We aimed to determine whether these findings are causal. A total of 378 877 UK Biobank participants were studied.

Previous studies have reported cross-sectional associations between measures of epigenetic age acceleration (EAA) and kidney function phenotypes. We conducted a bidirectional two-sample Mendelian randomization study of EAA and kidneyfunction. We found that each 5 year increase in intrinsic EAA (IEAA) was associated with - 0.01 unit decreases in log-eGFR.

The heritability of alpha angle (AA) was 10%. AA had a moderate genetic correlation with hip OA. Eight independent genetic signals were associated with AA. Expected observational associations between AA and related clinical outcomes provided face validity.

Inverse-variance weighted two-sample Mendelian randomization (IVW-MR) is the most widely used approach that utilizes genome-wide association studies. Estimates from this approach can be subject to different biases due to the use of weak instruments and winner's curse. We developed a method (MRlap) that simultaneously considers weak instrument bias andWinner's curse while accounting for potential sample overlap.

Current guidelines raised the necessity of CVD risk scoring for prediabetes without clear recommendations. Study aimed to systematically assess the performance of 11 models. Neither risk stratification schemes for the general population nor those specific for Type 2 diabetes performed well.

The World Health Organization (WHO) introduced a framework for healthy aging in 2015 that emphasizes functional ability instead of absence of disease. Healthy ageing is defined as "the process of building and maintaining the functional ability that enables well-being"

Schizophrenia is a chronic debilitating psychiatric disorder with significant morbidity and mortality. We used information from 337,484 UK Biobank participants and performed PheWAS using schizophrenia genetic risk score on 1135 disease outcomes. Schizophrenia GRS was associated with 54 (39 distinct) disease outcomes including schizophrenia. Lower odds were found for several diseases including type 1 diabetes and coronary atherosclerosis.

The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has led to a fundamental number of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Glucosamine was indicated to help prevent and control RNA virus infection preclinically, while its potential therapeutic effects are largely unknown. We assessed the association of habitual glucosamine use with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronav virus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection, hospital admission, and mortality with COVID- 19 in a large population based cohort.

 genome-wide meta-analysis of 11.6 million variants in 10 cohorts involving 653 867 European ancestry participants (13 765 cases) Seventeen loci were associated with AS at P &#8804; 5 × 10-8, of which 15 replicated in an independent cohort of 90 828 participants (7111 cases) Dyslipidemia, inflammation, calcification, and adiposity play important roles in the etiology of AS.

Growing evidence supports an association between fatty liver disease (FLD) and cardiac dysfunction and remodelling. Herein, we investigated the independent contribution of FLD to cardiac dysfunction in participants from the UK Biobank with cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) data available. FLD was independently associated with higher average heart rate, higher cardiac remodelling (higher eccentricity ratio and lower remodelling index) and lower left and right ventricular volumes.

High myopia (HM) is a leading cause of sight impairment, through myopic macular degeneration (MMD) We aimed to derive an improved polygenic score (PGS) for predicting children at risk of HM. We also wanted to test if a PGS is predictive of MMD after accounting for SER.

Study included 162,334 participants from the UK Biobank. 18,496 participants experienced at least one of hypertension, diabetes, and CKD, 2216 experienced multimorbidity, and 302 died afterwards. We observed differential associations of four air pollutants on different transitions from healthy status to incident disease. Air pollution exposure might be one important determinant for the incidence and dynamic progression.

Gallstones (cholelithiasis) constitute a major health burden with high costs related to surgical removal of the gallbladder. The association between gallstones and cholecystectomy and kidney cancer is controversial. We comprehensively investigated this association.

Since the outbreak of COVID-19, data on its psychosocial predictors are limited. We aimed to explore psychossocial predictors of the infection at the UK Biobank. Among females, absence of college/university degree and socioeconomic deprivation were associated with higher odds of infection.

Study included 407,615 participants from the UK Biobank study. Participants were classified into three lifestyle categories and three genetic risk categories. Cox models were fitted to assess the association of lifestyle and genetic risk.

Ischemic heart disease (IHD) has been linked with poor brain outcomes. Brain age was estimated in subjects with prevalent IHD (n = 1,341) using a Bayesian ridge regression model. Prevalent IHD was linked to significantly accelerated brain aging.

LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) is a well-established risk factor for coronary artery disease (CAD) However, the optimal LDL-C level with regard to efficacy and safety remains unclear. We analyzed 353 232 British from the UK Biobank and 41 271 Chinese from the China-PAR project. No significant non-linear associations were observed for CAD, all-cause mortality, and safety outcomes (Cochran Q P > 0.25 in British and Chinese)

Chronic liver disease is a major public health burden worldwide. We examined the association between clonal haematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) and chronic liver disease in 214,563 individuals. CHIP was associated with an increased risk of prevalent and incident liver disease.

Evidence relating omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-6 PUFA) with dementia is scarce. Here, we included 440,750 dementia-free participants from UK Biobank. During a median follow-up of 9.25 years, 7768 incident dementia events occurred. Higher plasma levels of five PUFA measures showed consistent associations with lower dementia risk.

The immune response to infections could be largely driven by the individual's genes, especially in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region. In addition to infection, the reactivations of VZV can be a potential causal factor for multiple traits. Identification of immune response-related health conditions can help elucidate the aetiology of certain diseases.

Existing evidence concerning the relationship between daytime napping and type 2 diabetes (T2D) is inconsistent, and whether the effects of napping differ by body fat percentage (BFP) and C-reactive protein (CRP) is unclear. We aimed to investigate the association between napping frequency and T2D risk and whether such an association was modified by BFP and CRP.

Study aimed to investigate the association of infertility, miscarriage, and stillbirth with age at natural menopause, and whether the association differed by race (Asian and non-Asian) A total of 303,594 postmenopausal women were included. Their median age atnaturalMenopause was 50.0 years (interquartile range, 47.0-52.0).

Study explored potential interaction effects of inflammation and coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) on the risks of anxiety and depression. Infection-induced perturbation of immune homeostasis could promote psychopathology.

Breast cancer (BC) is the most common cancer and the second leading cause of cancer death in women. One in eight women in the USA will develop BC during her lifetime. Current methods of BC screening are often underused due to limited access, expense and a lack of risk awareness.

Number of children, age of births, and span of births were all related to risk of dementia. Women who had three or more children and first birth at age before 25 years had elevated risk of all-cause dementia. These findings may help developing fertility policies or dementia prevention programs.

Despite increasing therapeutic options to treat rheumatoid arthritis (RA), many patients fail to reach treatment targets. The use of antidiabetic drugs like thiazolidinediones has been associated with lower RA risk. We aimed to explore the repurposing potential of these drugs in RA prevention.

Study aims to quantify risk factors of dementia, stroke, and mortality in Asian and black participants compared to whites. After adjusting for risk factors, black participants have an increased risk of dementia and stroke compared to white participants, while Asians has similar odds to the white.

Physical frailty is a state of increased vulnerability to stressors and is associated with serious health issues. How frailty affects mental health and brain structure remains underexplored. We aimed to investigate the mutual effects of frailty and health using large, multidimensional data.

Dementia and hearing loss are both highly prevalent conditions among older adults. We aimed to examine the association between hearing aid use and risk of all-cause and cause-specific dementia. We used data from the UK Biobank, a population-based cohort study.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a pandemic disease where up to half of the risk is explained by genetic factors. Vcam1+ smooth muscle cell state genes contributed most to SNP-based heritability of CAD. The results provide insights into the biological mechanisms associated with CAD risk.

Socio-economic status (SES) and biological aging are risk factors for dementia, including Alzheimer's disease. It is less clear if the associations with SES vary sufficiently across different biological age strata. We used data from 331,066 UK Biobank participants aged 38-73 with mean follow-up of 12 years.

Sleep disturbance is common following hospital admission both for COVID-19 and other causes. The clinical associations of this for recovery after hospital admission are poorly understood despite sleep disturbance contributing to morbidity in other scenarios. We aimed to investigate the prevalence and nature of sleep disturbance after discharge following hospital Admission for CO VID-19. And to assess whether this was associated with dyspnoea.

Previous research has linked specific modifiable lifestyle factors to age-related cognitive decline in adults. Little is known about the potential role of an overall healthy lifestyle in brain structure. We examined the association of adherence to a healthy lifestyle with a panel of brain structural markers among 2,413 participants in PolyvasculaR.

Using the UK Biobank population-based cohort, we developed and validated a simple model comprising age, family history, and a polygenic risk score to predict 5-year risk of prostate cancer. Of the 198 334 eligible participants, 8996 (4.5%) were diagnosed with incident prostate cancer during follow-up and had a mean age of 67.9 (SD = 5.8) years at diagnosis.

Retinal aging clocking, 'eyeAge', predicted chronological age more accurately than other aging clocks. It was independent of blood marker-based measures of biological age.

Causal mechanisms underlying systemic inflammation in spinal & widespread pain remain an intractable experimental challenge. Here we examined whether associations between blood C-reactive protein (CRP) and chronic back, neck/shoulder and widespread pain can be explained by shared underlying genetic variants. We also examined whether higher CRP levels causally contribute to these conditions.

Perivascular space (PVS) burden is an emerging, poorly understood, magnetic resonance imaging marker of cerebral small vessel disease. Genome-wide association studies in up to 40,095 participants revealed 24 genome-wide significant PVS risk loci. These were associated with white matter PVS already in young adults.

Brain-age can be inferred from structural neuroimaging and compared to chronological age. Brain-age delta was associated with abnormal amyloid-&#946;, more advanced stages (AT) of AD pathology and APOE -&#949;4 status.

Air pollution increases the risk of adult-onset asthma, but that the size of the effect is modified by lifestyle and genetic risk. Findings emphasize the need for integrated interventions for environmental pollution by the government.

Cancer and cardiovascular disease (CVD) diagnoses were ascertained using health record linkage. Participants with cancer history (breast, lung, prostate, colorectal, uterus, haematological) were propensity matched.

 Associations of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the MLXIPL  lipid gene with Alzheimer's (AD) and coronary heart disease (CHD) were examined in two samples of European ancestry from the US and UK. Two patterns of associations (represented by rs17145750 and rs6967028) were identified. The results suggest that these associations can be regulated by several biological mechanisms.

The study involved a total of 500,000 patients of European ancestry. The GSTM1 gene variant was found to be critical in the development of lung carcinogenesis. Oxidative stress caused by smoking is also a key mechanism in lung carcinogenic.

Early morning is characterized by an increased risk of cardiovascular events, a sudden rise in blood pressure, impaired endothelial function, and exacerbated hemodynamic changes. Study aims to examine whether the time of day of physical activity is associated with incident cardiovascular disease (CVD)

Opioid-related adverse events (OAEs) are serious public health concerns. OAEs are often associated with disrupted sleep, but the long-term relationship between poor sleep and subsequent OAE risk remains unknown. This study investigates whether sleep behavior traits are associated with incident O AEs in a large population cohort.

Evidence suggests a positive association between ultra-processed food (UPF) consumption and the incidence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) The study aims to investigate associations between UPF intake and respiratory disease, CVD, and their multimorbidity in a large prospective cohort.

Between 2007 and 2010, 229,026 women (mean age: 56.5 years) without prevalent HF from the UK Biobank cohort were included. Younger maternal age at first live birth and at last live birth were associated with higher risk of HF. Experiencing miscarriages or abortions was not significantly associated with incident HF.

Non-suicidal self-injury and suicide attempt represent significant public health concerns. Efforts to directly differentiate risk across outcomes are uncommon, particularly among older, population-based cohorts. Black individuals were more likely to report a suicide attempt.

Myocardial interstitial fibrosis is associated with cardiovascular disease and adverse prognosis. We developed a machine learning model to measure native myocardial T1 time, a marker of fibrosis. Genome-wide association analysis identified 11 independent loci associated with T1.

The causal relevance of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) for risk of site-specific cancers remains uncertain. Study used summary genetic data on 10 PUFAs and 67 cancers. Genetically elevated PUFA desaturase activity was associated with urinary system cancers.

A healthy sleep pattern has been related to a lower risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) We aimed to identify the metabolomic signature for the healthy sleep patterns and assess its potential causality with T2DM. The study included 78 659 participants with complete phenotypic data from the UK Biobank study.

Mosaic loss of the Y-chromosome (LOY) is the most common somatic alteration in men. LOY is associated with age, smoking, and constitutional genetics. We aimed to assess the relationships between LOY, serum biomarkers, and clonal hematopoiesis (CH)

Genetic variation contributes greatly to LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and coronary artery disease risk. By combining analysis of rare coding variants from the UK Biobank and genome-scale CRISPR-Cas9 knockout and activation screening, we substantially improve the identification of genes whose disruption alters serum LDL-C levels.

Recessive deficiency of proopiomelanocortin (POMC) causes childhood-onset severe obesity. We performed a large-scale genetic analysis to assess the effect of heterozygous, pathogenic POMC variants on obesity. In UK Biobank, we identified 60 heterozygotes for pathogenic variants, of whom 14 had obesity. Setmelanotide use in patients with obesity can now be questioned.

50% of children with obesity from consanguineous families from Pakistan carry pathogenic variants in known monogenic obesity genes. Here, we have discovered a novel monogenetic recessive form of severe childhood obesity using an in-house computational staged approach.

UK Biobank cohort study included 369,752 participants and 10,660 deaths. Overweight was not associated with the risk of death regardless of age. Attenuated associations with older age were observed only among the individuals with the highest obesity.

The association between sodium intake and long-term kidney disease endpoints is debated and yet to be proven. We aimed to investigate the associations of estimated 24-h urinary sodium excretion, reflecting daily sodium intake, with the incidence of end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) In this prospective cohort study including 444,375 UK Biobank participant, 865 (0.2%) ESKD events occurred after median follow-up of 12.7 years.

 Epidemiological evidence on the association between specific types of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) intake and lung cancer risk is limited. We evaluated the associations between air pollutants and incident lung cancer, and whether dietary-specific PUFAs intake would modify the relationship. Higher dietary omega-3 and omega-6 PUFas intake was associated with a decreased risk of lung cancer in the study population.

PDCD1 gene variants have been reported to modulate liver inflammation and progression to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) We examined whether the PDCD1 variation is associated with NAFLD severity in individuals with liver biopsy. The strongest genetic association with the rs13023138 G>C variation was subsequently tested for association with liver damage.

Physical activity, sedentary behaviour, and genetic variants have been associated with the nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) Whether and how the degree of healthy activity patterns may modify the impact of genetic susceptibility on NAFLD remains unknown.

Biological age is a risk factor for many chronic diseases independent of chronological age. A good lifestyle is known to improve overall health, but its association with biological age is unclear. This study included participants from the UK Biobank who had undergone 12-lead resting electrocardiography (ECG)

Cardio-cerebrovascular events are severe complications of diabetes. We aim to compare the incident risk of these events in maturity onset diabetes of the young, type 1 diabetes, and type 2 diabetes.

Fried food consumption strongly associated with 12% and 7% higher risk of anxiety and depression, respectively. Long-term exposure to acrylamide exacerbates scototaxis and thigmotaxis, and further impairs exploration ability and sociality of adult zebrafish.

Melanoma is one of the most commonly diagnosed cancers in the Western world. Third in Australia, fifth in the USA and sixth in the European Union. Predicting an individual's personal risk of developing melanoma may aid them in undertaking effective risk reduction measures.

Intimate partner violence (IPV) is a public health challenge negatively affecting victims' health. Telomere length (TL), a marker for biological ageing, might be reflective of the mechanisms through which IPV leads to adverse health outcomes.

Clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) and clonal cytopenia of undetermined significance (CCUS) are defined by somatic mutations in genes associated with myeloid neoplasms. CHIP/CCUS is highly prevalent in adults and defining predictors of MN risk would aid clinical management and research.

A total of 431,062 participants from the UK Biobank who were without cancer or cardiovascular disease at baseline between 2006 and 2010 were included in this study. 383,248 (88.9%) and 410,499 (95.2%) consumed oily fish and nonoily fish, respectively. Compared with the participants who did not consume oily fish, the adjusted HRs for the association of oily fish consumption (1 serving/week) with all-cause mortality and CVD mortality were 0.93 (0.87 to 0.98)

The UK Biobank (UKB) is a potentially valuable resource for the study of health disparities. We identified numerous diseases and health conditions with disparate prevalence values across population attributes. We deployed an interactive web browser to visualize the results of our analysis: https://ukbatlas.health-disparities.org/.

This article highlights the potential protective role of the SAMD15 gene against chronic pain following a mild traumatic brain injury. The expression of the gene is associated with a SNP, which is itself associated with neutrophils counts as well as chronic pain in large genetic studies.

Dysfunction of either the right or left ventricle can lead to heart failure (HF) and subsequent morbidity and mortality. We performed a genome-wide association study of 16 cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging measurements of biventricular function and structure. 33 plasma proteins were prioritized, including repurposing candidates for DCM and/or HF.

The American Diabetes Association recommends a glycated haemoglobin target of less than 7% for treating type 2 diabetes mellitus. We used data from 5703 patients on metformin monotherapy participating in the UK Biobank baseline investigation.

Previous prediction algorithms for cardiovascular diseases (CVD) were established using risk factors retrieved largely based on empirical clinical knowledge. This study sought to identify predictors among a comprehensive variable space, and then employ machine learning (ML) algorithms to develop a novel CVD risk prediction model.

Volunteer-based studies such as the UK Biobank have become the cornerstone of genetic epidemiology. We found that increasing representativeness led to changes in SNP effect sizes and identified novel SNP associations for 12 traits. We urge the field to increase represent ativeness in biobank samples, especially when studying genetic correlates of behaviour, lifestyles and social outcomes.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) shares genetic variants with other autoimmune conditions. existing studies test the association between RA variants with a pre-defined set of phenotypes. objective of this study was to determine phenotypes that share genetic architecture with RA to inform our understanding of shared pathways.

Thousands of genomic regions have been associated with heritable human diseases. Attempts to elucidate biological mechanisms are impeded by an inability to discern which genomic positions are functionally important. We found 3.3% of the human genome is significantly constrained and likely functional.

There has been inconclusive evidence on how biological age (BA) may be associated with cancer incidence. We studied 308,156 UK Biobank participants with no history of cancer at enrolment. Using 18 age-associated clinical biomarkers, we computed three BA measures (Klemera-Doubal method, PhenoAge, homeostatic dysregulation)

Study included 87,258 UK Biobank participants (557 cases with incident RA) aged 37-73 y with complete lifestyle, genotyping, and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) metabolomics data. A healthy lifestyle was assessed based on 5 factors: healthy diet, regular exercise, not smoking, moderate alcohol consumption, and normal body mass index.

This was a prospective cohort study of 198,265 UK Biobank participants who completed at least 1 dietary assessment. A web based 24 hours recall questionnaire was used to derive the energy-adjusted dietary inflammatory index (E-DII) All-cause mortality and incident CVD and cancer ascertained from linked records.

Poor sleep quality was associated with a higher risk of all-cause, cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cancer mortality. Lifestyle mediators (smoking, physical activity, sedentary, BMI and diet) could explain between 2.6% and 34.0% of the increased risk. Self-reported health, frailty, depression, and loneliness were significant psychosocial mediators.

Rest-activity rhythm is of major interest to public health, but its associations with health outcomes remain elusive. We examined associations between accelerometer-measured rest-activity. rhythm amplitude and health risks among the general UK population. Decreased rest- activity rhythm amplitude was significantly associated with increased incidence of cardiovascular diseases.

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is associated with significant clinical, neuroanatomical, and genetic heterogeneity that limits precision diagnostics and treatment. This cross-sectional study discovered 3-dimensional endophenotypic representation that may elucidate the neurobiological underpinnings of ASD.

A healthy lifestyle is associated with a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease in adults with obesity. Little is known about the associations between a healthy lifestyle and the risk of other obesity-attributable diseases in this population. A healthy lifestyle score was constructed using information on not smoking, exercising regularly, no or moderate alcohol consumption, and eating a healthy diet.

The neural retina is considered a unique window to systemic health, but its biological link with systemic health remains unknown. This cohort study evaluated UK Biobank participants enrolled between 2006 and 2010. Of 249 metabolic metrics, 37 were independently associated with GCIPLT, including 8 positive and 29 negative associations. Most were associated with the rates of future mortality and common diseases.

Olfactory receptor 558 (Olfr558) is expressed in the kidney where its functional role is unknown. Using RNAScope, we find that OlfR558 localizes to vascular smooth muscle, including the renal afferent arteriole. We measured blood pressure (BP) in Olfr557 wild-type (WT) and knockout (KO) mice.

Study looked at 281,760 participants in the UK Biobank study. Data on pain in the hip, knee, back and neck/shoulder, or 'all over the body' were collected. MI and stroke events were determined from hospital admission records and death registries.

 Epilepsy has been associated with cognitive impairment and potentially dementia in older individuals. The extent to which epilepsy may increase dementia risk, how this compares with other neurological conditions, and how modifiable cardiovascular risk factors may affect this risk remain unclear.

Genome-wide genealogies compactly represent the evolutionary history of a set of genomes. inferring them from genetic data has the potential to facilitate a wide range of analyses. We introduce a method, ARG-Needle, for accurately inferring biobank-scale genealogie from sequencing or genotyping array data.

Clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) is a novel cardiovascular risk factor. Whether CHIP remains prognostic in individuals with established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) is less clear.

Cross-sectional evidence implicates high prevalent frailty in patients with Parkinson disease (PD), whereas the longitudinal association remains unknown. The UK Biobank recruited over 500 000 middle-aged and older adults from 22 assessment centers across the United Kingdom. The final analysis included 314 998 participants.

Study examined interactions between ultraprocessed food (UPF) consumption and genetic predisposition with the risk of gout. 181 559 individuals from the UK Biobank study who were free of gouts at baseline were analysed.

Until recently, most genetic studies of headache have been conducted on participants with European ancestry. We conducted a large-scale genome-wide association study of self-reported headache in individuals of East Asian ancestry (specifically those who were identified as Han Chinese) 108 855 participants were enrolled, including 12 026 headache cases from the Taiwan Biobank. We identified a locus on Chromosome 17, with the lead single-nucleotide polymorphism rs8072917.

Higher body mass index in adulthood is widely acknowledged to be protective for most fracture sites. However, sources of bias induced by confounding factors may have distorted previous findings. This investigation aims to explore how prepubertal and adult body size independently influence fracture risk in later life. Using data from a large prospective cohort, univariable and multivariable MR were conducted.

Spinal curvature may impact the organs within the thoracic cage, including the heart. Cardiac abnormalities in patients with idiopathic scoliosis are often studied post-corrective surgery or secondary to diseases.

Chronic musculoskeletal pain has been linked to dementia. This study investigated whether greater number of chronic pain sites is associated with a higher risk of dementia and its subtypes.

The human leukocyte antigen (HLA) is a highly polymorphic region. HLA diversity may play a role in presenting tumour-associated peptides and inducing immune responses. We aimed to explore the role of HLA Diversity on cancer development. A lower risk of lung cancer was associated with HLA class II locus.

Both depression and breast cancer (BC) contribute to a substantial global burden of morbidity and mortality among women. Previous studies have observed a potential depression-BC link. We aimed to comprehensively characterize the phenotypic and genetic relationships between depression and BC.

Mobile phone use for making or receiving calls was significantly associated with a higher risk of new-onset hypertension, especially among high-frequency users. Compared with mobile phone non-users, a significantly higher risk was found in mobile phone users.

We used genetic and phenotypic data from 100,833 White British UK Biobank participants (57% female; mean age = 55.9 years) We regressed nine cardiovascular risk factors/diseases (alcohol consumption, body mass index, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, lifetime smoking behaviour, systolic blood pressure, coronary heart disease, type 2 diabetes, and stroke) on their respective polygenic scores.

At present, the results on the associations between dietary patterns and risk of dementia are inconsistent. We aimed to investigate the associations of midlife dietary patterns with incident dementia and brain structures.

Using data from the UK Biobank, 498,621 participants who were free of AKI and had information on tea intake were included. After a median follow-up period of 12.0 years, 21,202 participants occurred AKI. There was a reversed J-shaped relation between tea consumption and incident AKI, with an inflection point at 3.5 cup/d. Light to moderate tea consumption, especially adding milk, can be part of a healthy diet.

Sleep and circadian disruption are associated with depression onset and severity. It is unclear which features (e.g., sleep duration, chronotype) are important and whether they can identify individuals showing poorer outcomes. Within a subset of the UK Biobank with actigraphy and mental health data (n = 64,353), penalised regression identified the most useful of 51 sleep/rest-activity predictors of depression-related outcomes. Key predictors across most models included: difficulty getting up, insomnia symptoms, snoring, actigraphY-measured daytime inactivity and lower morning activity (~8 am)

Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is one of the most common functional digestive disorders. We analyzed data from the population-based cohort of the UK Biobank with 493,974 participants. 260 PheCodes were significantly overrepresented in self-reported physician-diagnosed IBS patients.

The corpus callosum (CC) is the main structure transferring information between the cerebral hemispheres. Previous large-scale genome-wide association study (GWAS) has illustrated the genetic architecture of white matter integrity of CC. This study found that CC volume is less stressed.

Telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) has been consistently associated with prostate cancer (PCa) risk. Few studies have explored the association between TERT variants and PCa aggressiveness.

Diabetes is associated with increased risk of common cancers. Evidence of cancer risk in individuals with different diabetes risk is still scarce. We aimed to evaluate the relationship between the Finnish Diabetes Risk Score (FINDRISC) and risks of cancer incidence and mortality.

Lifecourse Mendelian randomization is a causal inference technique which harnesses genetic variants with time-varying effects to develop insight into the influence of age-dependent lifestyle factors on disease risk. Here, we evaluate whether childhood body size has a direct consequence on 8 major disease endpoints by analysing parental history data from the UK Biobank.

Habitual coffee consumption has been linked to a growing list of health benefits. The mechanisms underlying the protective effects of caffeine remain speculative. Daily coffee intake should not be discouraged by physicians, even in the presence of a newly developed cardiovascular disease.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) are chronic multisystem diseases that cause tremendous health burdens worldwide. Previous epidemiological studies have found a bidirectional relationship between these two diseases; however, their causality remains largely unknown. We aim to examine the causal relationship between NAFLD and T2DM.

The association of age at stroke onset with dementia and the role of post-stroke lifestyle on dementia risk remains unclear. We leveraged data of 496,251 dementia-free participants from UK Biobank. Among participants with stroke history, a favorable lifestyle was associated with a lower risk of incident dementia.

A total of 20,320 COVID-19 patients in the UK Biobank cohort were included. Genome-wide association analysis (GWAS) was used to identify host genetic factors. Colocalization analysis found that two genes (SLC6A20 and LZTFL1) may affect the progression of the disease. Predictive model consisting of demographic characteristics, comorbidities and genetic factors could precisely predict the patient's progression.

The link between peripheral inflammation and neuroinflammation in depression is unclear. Here, we estimated associations among depression, C-reactive protein (CRP) as a measure of peripheral inflammation, and neuro inflammation. CRP was associated with higher depression symptoms.

Recent studies have linked exposure to road traffic noise or air pollution with incident type 2 diabetes (T2D) We hypothesized that long-term co-exposure increases the risk of incident T2D via the development of metabolic syndrome (MetS) This prospective study included 390,834 participants in UK Biobank.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) could be used to stratify individuals with high risk of diseases and predict complex trait of individual in a population. Previous studies developed a PRS-based prediction model using linear regression. One of the key assumptions of linear regression is that the variance of the residual should be constant at each level of the predictor variables.

Graph-theoretic metrics derived from neuroimaging data have been heralded as powerful tools for uncovering neural mechanisms of psychological traits, psychiatric disorders, and neurodegenerative diseases. In N = 8,185 human structural connectomes from UK Biobank, we examined the extent to which 11 commonly-used global graph-theory metrics index distinct versus overlapping information with respect to brain organization.

Mortality and incidence of CVDs are significantly higher in people with mood disorders. Study used data from the UK Biobank towards understanding the influence of genetic factors on the comorbidity. Results indicated a significant positive genetic correlation between CVBs and overall mood disorders and MDD specifically, showing substantial genetic overlap.

Study aims to understand the genetic predisposition to STEM occupations and investigate its associations with regional economic performance. We conducted a genome-wide association study on the occupational choice of STEM jobs based on a sample of 178,976 participants from the UK Biobank.

Obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2D) are associated with increased risk of pancreatic cancer. We assessed the relationship between pancreatic. cancer and two distinct measures of obesity, namely total. adiposity, using BMI, versus abdominal adiposity. using BMI adjusted waist-to-hip ratio (WHRadjBMI) using polygenic scores (PGS) and Mendelian randomisation (MR) analyses. PGSBMI was significantly (multiple testing-corrected) associated with pancreatic Cancer (OR[95%CI] = 1.0804[1.025-1.14], P = 0.0037)

Puritus is identified as an adverse drug reaction to arsenic trioxide. Arsenite-treated mice were used to confirm the biomarker. Naloxone relieves pruritus in patients with arseniasis.

The brain age gap (BAG) is widely considered a general indicator of brain health. BAG is sensitive to an array of genetic and nongenetic traits and diseases. Few studies have examined the genetic architecture and its corresponding causal relationships with common brain disorders.

Hearing problems (HP) in adults are common and are associated with several comorbid conditions. We conducted a comprehensive genome-wide investigation of HP in 748,668 adult participants. We identified 54 risk loci and demonstrated that HP polygenic risk is shared across ancestry groups.

Prediagnostic clinical characteristics of individuals with a final diagnosis of dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB), Parkinson's disease (PD) compared with controls without neurodegenerative disorders. The use of statins was lower in patients who developed PD and higher in patients with DLB compared to patients with AD.

Study aimed to generate coherent evidence on the post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 infection using electronic healthcare records across two regions. A total of 535,186 and 16,400 patients were diagnosed with CO VID-19 from HKHA and UKB, of whom 253,872 and 7613 (46.4%) were male.

The discovery in 2005 of the JAK2 V617F gain-of-function mutation in myeloproliferative neoplasms has deeply changed the diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to polycythemia. More recently, the use of NGS in routine practice has revealed a large number of variants, although it is not always possible to classify them as pathogenic. This is notably the case for the J AK2 E846D variant for which for which questions remain unanswered.

New method, random projection-based identity-by-descent (IBD) detection (RaPID) query. RaPID-Query identifies IBD segments between a query haplotype and a panel of haplotypes. A single query against all UK biobank autosomal chromosomes was completed within 2.76 seconds on average.

Patients suffering from mental disorders are at high risk of developing cardiovascular diseases, leading to a reduction in life expectancy. Genetic variants can display greater influence on cardiometabolic features in psychiatric cohorts compared to the general population.

 understanding how host genetics contributes to the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) is essential to tailoring cancer screening and treatment strategies. We study 1084 eQTLs affecting the TIME found through analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas and literature curation.

Genetically predicted Lp(a) was marginally related with higher odds of total stroke, ischemic stroke, and large-artery atherosclerotic stroke. The associations were also remarkable in the primary analysis using the UK Biobank data.

Frailty was associated with cardiometabolic diseases (CMDs, including coronary heart disease, stroke, and diabetes here) There were no systematic analyses estimating its role in incidence, progression, and prognosis of CMM. We included 351 205 participants without CMDs at baseline in UK Biobank.

Previous studies have hypothesized that autozygosity is decreasing over generational time. We determined that a model including an ancestry-by-country interaction term fit the data best. We speculate that this trend can be attributed to increases in urbanization and panmixia.

The burden of chronic conditions associated with sugary beverages is increasing. Little is known about the role of different types of sugary drinks in the co-occurrence of multiple chronic conditions ('multimorbidity') To inform future sugar-reduction guidelines, we aimed to examine the associations of sugar-sweetened beverages (SSB), artificially sweetened drinks (ASB) and natural juices (NJ)

For each 10 mm Hg increase in SBP the estimated effect was OR 0.96 (0.90-1.01) for overall prostate cancer. The MR-estimated effect of a 10mm Hg- SBP lowering through CCB genetic variants was OR 1.22 (1.06- 1.42) for all prostate cancers. We found that blocking calcium channel receptors may increase prostate cancer risk.

Hip fractures constitute a major health concern. Circulating amino acid levels have been proposed as markers of bone mineral density. Data on their ability to predict incident fractures are scarce. We propose that circulating valine may add information for hip fracture prediction.

There is increasing evidence that the complexity of the retinal vasculature measured as fractal dimension, Df, might offer earlier insights into the progression of coronary artery disease. We present a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of 38,000 individuals with white British ancestry from the UK Biobank. We replicated 5 Df loci and found 4 additional loci with suggestive significance.

Evidence on the gender-specific association between body composition and liver cancer incidence is limited. This prospective analysis included 4,75,659 participants free of cancer, based on the UK Biobank. Male patients in the highest body fat percentage group are more likely to develop liver cancer.

Identifying metabolic biomarkers of frailty is important for understanding its metabolic underpinnings and developing preventive strategies. In up to 90,573 UK Biobank participants, we identified 59 biomarkers robustly and independently associated with the frailty index (FI) Using two-sample Mendelian randomization, we showed that the genetically predicted level of glycoprotein acetyls was statistically significantly associated with an increased FI.

Study included 409,923 participants from the UK Biobank. Data on five sleep factors (chronotype, sleep duration, sleeplessness/insomnia, snoring, and daytime sleepiness) were collected. Long sleep duration increased the PD risk, especially among men and participants.

Study looked at associations of sleep behaviors with esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) and squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) Sleep >9 h/d and sometimes daytime napping were individually associated with increased EAC risk.

A total of 395,809 individuals of European ancestry with diabetes-free at baseline in the UK Biobank were included. Time spent in outdoor light on a typical day in summer or winter was obtained from the questionnaire. After the median follow-up of 12.55 years, the association of outdoor light time and T2D risk demonstrated a nonlinear (J-shaped) trend.

Longitudinal studies associate shiftwork with cardiometabolic disorders but do not establish causation or elucidate mechanisms of disease. We developed a mouse model based on shiftwork schedules to study circadian misalignment in both sexes. Behavioral and transcriptional rhythmicity were preserved in female mice despite exposure to misal alignment. Antibiotic ablation of the gut microbiota diminished the impact of misaligned.

Critical illness in COVID-19 is an extreme and clinically homogeneous disease phenotype. We find 49 genome-wide significant associations, of which 16 have not been reported previously. We identify potentially druggable targets in multiple systems, including inflammatory signalling.

Research on the association of physical activity and sedentary time with dementia is elusive. We analysed the associations of accelerometer-measured physical activity with risk of incident dementia (all-cause dementia, Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia)

Unveiling the details of white matter (WM) maturation throughout ageing is a fundamental question for understanding the ageing brain. We analyzed UK Biobank diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (dMRI) data across midlife and older age. Conventional and advanced dMRI approaches were consistent in predicting brain age.

The association between sleep behaviors and gout risk remains uncertain. We aimed to evaluate the relationship of sleep patterns based on a combination of five major sleep behaviors with the risk of new-onset gout. 403,630 participants without gout at baseline in UK Biobank were included.

The American Heart Association recently released a new cardiovascular health (CVH) metric, Life's Essential 8 (LE8), for health promotion. The association between levels of LE8 and the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) outcomes is not known from a large prospective cohort.

Genetic variants in TNNI3K (troponin-I interacting kinase) have previously been associated with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), cardiac conduction disease, and supraventricular tachycardias. However, the link between TNNi3K variants and these cardiac phenotypes shows a lack of consensus concerning phenotype and protein function.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) frequently co-exist. We assess the impact of having NAFLD on adverse clinical outcomes and all-cause mortality for people with CKD.

Hearing impairment is common in the middle-aged population but remains largely undiagnosed and untreated. We aimed to comprehensively examine the adverse health consequences as well as the comorbidity patterns of hearing loss. We included 14,620 individuals with audiometry-determined objective hearing loss and 38,479 individuals with subjective hearing loss at recruitment.

Compared with adults with normal glucose metabolism, those with prediabetes tend to be frail. It remains poorly understood whether frailty could identify adults who are most at risk of adverse outcomes related to predi diabetes. We aimed to systematically evaluate the associations between frailty, a simple health indicator, and risks of multiple adverse outcomes.

Smoking and alcohol were associated with higher BP in current smokers with synergistic effects. The findings suggest the importance of considering smoking and alcohol consumption in BP control in addition to antihypertensive medication and public health practice.

Most variants associated with complex traits and diseases identified by genome-wide association studies (GWAS) map to noncoding regions of the genome with unknown effects. Using ancestrally diverse, biobank-scale GWAS data, massively parallel CRISPR screens, and single-cell transcriptomic and proteomic sequencing, we discovered 124  cis -target genes of 91 non-coding blood trait GWAS loci.

We assessed the health data of 11,047 people with diabetes in the UK Biobank. Lower socioeconomic status, being overweight, poor overall health, cystatin C, HbA1C, and immune activation marker, C-reactive protein (CRP), predict DPN risk. Neutrophils and monocytes were higher in males and lymphocytes lower in females with diabetes that develop DPN.

Study examined whether C-reactive protein (CRP), a marker of low-grade systemic inflammation, mediates the association between vascular risk factor (VRF) burden and depressive symptoms. We analyzed data from 10,470 participants from the UK Biobank (mean age = 56.75 years at baseline) Net of covariates, VRFs at baseline were associated with higher depressive symptoms at follow-up.

Data from 32 studies that includes 13,790 bladder cancer cases and 343,502 controls of European ancestry were used for meta-analysis. Multiple novel bladder cancer susceptibility loci (6p.22.3, 7q36.3,. 8q21.13, 9p21. 3, 10q22.1, 19q13.33) were identified. The 4p16.3 (FGFR3/TACC3) locus was associated with a stronger risk for women than for men (p-interaction = 0.002). Bladder cancer risk was increased by interactions between smoking status and genetic variants at 8p22.

The relationship between vitamin D levels and cancer incidence and mortality in individuals with metabolic syndrome (MetS) remains poorly explored. Herein, we aimed to determine the association between 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] concentrations and the risk of 16 cancer incidence types.

Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a subtype of stroke that would cause high mortality and disability. Environmental factors may play an important role in the incident risk of ICH. Evidence on how long-term road traffic noise exposure affects incident ICH is still scarce, and whether green space has a modification effect is unknown.

Cognitive functioning is heritable, with metabolic risk factors known to accelerate age-associated cognitive decline. Identifying genetic underpinnings of cognition is thus crucial. Here, we undertake single-variant and gene-based association analyses upon 6 neurocognitive phenotypes across 6 cognition domains in whole-exome sequencing data.

Low muscle mass (MM) is a common component of cancer-related malnutrition and sarcopenia. Conditions are all independently associated with an increased risk of mortality. This study aimed to compare the prevalence of low MM, malnutrition, and sarc Openia and their association with survival in adults with cancer from the UK Biobank.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a fast-growing, underdiagnosed, epidemic. We hypothesise that obesity-related inflammation compromises adipose tissue functions, preventing efficient fat storage, and thus driving ectopic fat accumulation into the liver.

Study examined sex-based differences in associations of vascular risk factors with incident cardiovascular events in the UK Biobank. Older age, hypertension, and smoking appeared stronger drivers of cardiovascular disease in women, whereas lipid metrics appeared stronger risk determinants for men.

Digital gait biomarkers captured by a wrist-worn device can predict the incidence of depressive episodes in middle-age and older people. Longitudinal cohort study recruited 72,359 participants in the United Kingdom.

Head motion artifacts in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are an important confounding factor concerning brain research as well as clinical practice. For this reason, several machine learning-based methods have been developed for the automatic quality control of structural MRI scans. We present a relatively simple, lightweight 3D convolutional neural network trained in an end-to-end manner.

Chronic pain conditions frequently co-occur, suggesting common risks and paths to prevention and treatment. Here, we identified genetic risk for multiple distinct pain disorders across individuals using 24 chronic pain conditions and genomic structural equation modeling. Genomic SEM analysis revealed a general factor explaining most of the shared genetic variance across all pain conditions.

Depression is a major cause of disability worldwide. In industrialised countries, the prevalence of depression peaks in middle age. Identifying factors predictive of future depressive episodes is crucial for developing prevention strategies.

Study included 116,711 CVD-free participants with a median of 11.8 year follow-up. 210 food items were classified into 45 food groups. The derived DP was characterized by higher intakes of beer and cider, high-sugar beverages, processed meat, red meat and artificial sweetener.

Evidence about the association between calculated remnant cholesterol (RC) and risk of heart failure (HF) in participants with diabetes mellitus (DM) remains sparse and limited. We included a total of 22 230 participants with DM from the UK Biobank for analyses.

Co-occurrence of type 2 diabetes (T2D) and mood disorders (depression or anxiety) is an exceedingly common comorbidity with poor prognosis. We aimed to explore the effects of physical activity (PA), fine particulate matter (PM 2.5 ) air pollution or their interactions on the initiation, progression and subsequent mortality of T2D. PA and reducing pollution exposure may be included in health promotion strategies.

Study aimed to investigate associations between maternal smoking and education score in adult offspring. Results suggested 2q32.3 region and HECW2 gene could negatively moderate the influence of MS on offspring's educational status.

Study included 58 056 women who had no cardiovascular disease at baseline and reported their menstrual cycle regularity and length. During the median 11.8 years of follow-up, 1623 incident CVD cases were documented, including 827 incident cases of coronary heart disease, 199 myocardial infarctions, 271 strokes, 174 cases of heart failure, and 393 cases of atrial fibrillations. Compared with women with regular menstrual cycles, the HRs for women with irregular menstrual cycles were 1.19 (95% CI, 1.07-1.31) for CVD events. Long or short menstrual cycle length was associated with increased risks of CVD and atrialfibrillation but not my Cardi

Unhealthy dietary patterns (DP) have been frequently linked to avoidable ill-health. However it is unclear how these patterns relate to specific components of body composition or fat distribution. Data from 101,046 UK Biobank participants with baseline bioimpedance analysis and anthropometric measures were used.

White matter hyperintensities are the most compelling risk factors of stroke, dementia, and early mortality. We aimed to investigate the associations between WMH and circulating metabolites. We studied up to 8190 individuals from the UK Biobank who have both measurements of 249 plasma metabolites and WMH volume.

This prospective cohort study included 40,431 participants of the UK Biobank. Wrist-worn accelerometers were used to estimate total, light, moderate, vigorous and moderate-to-vigorous PA. The associations between PA and incident type 2 diabetes were analysed using Cox-proportional hazard models.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) are expected to play a critical role in precision medicine. Currently, PRS predictors are generally based on linear models using summary statistics. We developed a deep learning framework (EIR) for PRS prediction which includes a model, genome-local-net (GLN)

Evidence on road traffic noise and heart failure is limited. Little is known on the potential mediation roles of acute myocardial infarction (AMI), hypertension, or diabetes. This prospective study included 424,767 participants without HF at baseline in UK Biobank.

Life's Essential 8 (LE8) and genetic predisposition were evaluated. LE8 was determined by eight metrics (nicotine exposure, physical activity, diet, sleep, body mass index, blood pressure, blood glucose, and blood lipids) Genetic predisposition was estimated using the polygenic risk score (PRS) Cox regressions were performed to evaluate the associations between LE8, PRS, and outcomes.

Mental health profoundly impacts inflammatory responses in the body. This is particularly apparent in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), in which psychological stress is associated with exacerbated disease flares. Here, we discover a critical role for the enteric nervous system in mediating the aggravating effect of chronic stress on intestinal inflammation.

Regatta is a method to estimate clinical risk from variants in smaller segments of individual genes. We apply this method in 13 genes with established roles across several monogenic disorders. We find high concordance between these regional risk estimates and high-throughput functional assays of variant impact.

Renin-independent aldosteronism (RIA) describes the spectrum of autonomous aldosterone secretion from mild to overt. We aimed to explore whether RIA is causally associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD) in patients with diabetes. RIA was significantly associated with a higher risk of CKD.

Alcohol intake is a major modifiable risk factor for many diseases. Alcohol can also damage skeletal muscle health during ageing which in turn increases risk of sarcopenia, frailty and falls but this relationship is understudied. The aim of this study was to model the relationship between a full range of alcohol consumption and components of sarc Openic risk.

Recent epidemiological studies suggested that proton pump inhibitor (PPI) use was associated with an increased risk of biliary tract cancer (BTC) Our study aimed to evaluate PPI use and subsequent risk of BTC and its subtypes in three well-established cohorts. We documented 284 BTC cases in UK Biobank (median follow-up: 7.6 years), and 91 cases in NHS and NHS II cohorts.

Glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor (GLP-1R) function affects human physiology. This work aimed to identify coding nonsynonymous GLP1R variants in Danish individuals to link their in vitro phenotypes and clinical phenotypic associations.

Prurigo nodularis (PN) is an understudied inflammatory skin disease. Identifying the genetic factors underlying PN could help to better understand its etiology. Black patients have over a two-times greater genetic risk of developing PN.

The fornix is a white matter bundle that controls memory and executive functions. Its genetic architectures and involvement in brain disorders remain largely unknown. We carried out a genome-wide association analysis of 30,832 UK Biobank individuals. The GWAS identified 63 independent significant variants within 20 genomic loci associated (P)

Severity of symptoms in individuals affected by COVID-19 spans a broad spectrum, reflective of heterogeneous host susceptibilities across the population. We assessed the utility of epidemiological risk factors to predict disease severity prospectively, and interrogated genetic information to evaluate whether they can provide further insights.

Steroid-sensitive nephrotic syndrome (SSNS) is the most common form of kidney disease in children worldwide. Genome-wide association studies have demonstrated the association of SSNS with genetic variation at HLA-DQ/DR. We sought to identify additional genetic loci associated with SSNS in children of Sri Lankan and European ancestry.

Time-to-first knee osteoarthritis (OA) code was compared in injured cases and age-/sex-matched non-injured controls using Cox Proportional Hazards models. Of 4233 knee injury cases, 1896 (44.8%) were female. OA risk was highest in the first 5 years after injury (HR 3.26 [2.67,3.98]), persisting for 40 years.

 genome-wide association studies have identified over 100 colorectal cancer (CRC) risk loci. However, the functional mechanism of this region has not been fully clarified. Here, we applied an RNA interfering-based on-chip approach to screen for the genes essential for cell proliferation in 10q26.12. HSPA12A had the most significant effect and functioned as a crucial oncogene facilitating cell proliferation.

Higher air pollution exposure and shorter leukocyte telomere length (LTL) are both associated with increased risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) LTL may serve as a biomarker and may be intervened with to reduce the risk of CHD. Pollutant concentrations in the lower range were decreasingly associated with longer LTL and reduced risk ofCHD.

Preeclampsia and gestational hypertension are common pregnancy complications associated with adverse maternal and child outcomes. Current tools for prediction, prevention and treatment are limited. Here we tested the association of maternal DNA sequence variants with these complications.

SCORE2-Diabetes developed to estimate the 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in individuals with type 2 diabetes in Europe. Risk predictions varied several-fold, depending on individuals' levels of diabetes-related factors.

UK Biobank cohort comprised 165,688 dementia-free participants (aged at least 60 years) Dementia was ascertained using hospital inpatient, mortality, and self-reported data until 2021. Vitamin D and grip strength were collected at baseline and divided into tertiles.

Study looked at associations of diabetes, prediabetes and diabetes duration with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) risk and survival in the UK Biobank. Over a median follow-up of 12.3 years, 12 595 cases of COPD were documented. Diabetes duration was associated with COPD risk, with multivariable HRs (95% CIs) of 1.23 (1.05-1.44) for diabetes duration of 7 years or longer.

Microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) inhibits hepatic secretion of VLDL. MTTP I128T is associated with reduced hepatic steatosis as well as reduced plasma lipids and apoB. This paradoxical profile is not consistent with a simple gain or loss of function in MTP.

 Variants in SLCO1B1 influence statin pharmacokinetics, resulting in altered plasma concentrations of the drug and its metabolites. Current pharmacogenetic guidelines require sequencing of the SLCo1B 1 gene, which is more expensive and less accessible than genotyping. We aimed to develop an easy, clinically implementable functional gene risk score (GRS) of common variants in S LCO1b1.

Telomere attrition is one of biological aging hallmarks and may be intervened to target multiple aging-related diseases. Longer TL was associated with a lower risk of incident AD/ADRD (adjusted Hazard Ratio [aHR] per SD = 0.93, 95% CI 0.90-0.96, p = 3.37 × 10 -7  ). LongerTL also was associated. with better cognitive performance in specific cognitive domains.

There is mounting evidence for an inherited predisposition for DCM, but uncertainty remains regarding specific genetic markers involved. Nongenetic factors are thought to play a role. Increasing age, male sex, and relative socioeconomic deprivation were identified as independent risk factors.

Study aimed to investigate whether independent dimensions of metabolic syndrome (MetS) components are associated differentially with cardiometabolic diseases. Principal components analysis was performed using the five MetS components from 153,073 unrelated European-ancestry participants (55% women) from the UK Biobank.

Gene-environment interactions (G × E) can provide biological insights into the effects of obesity on colorectal cancer risk. Using data from three large international consortia, this study discovered a locus in the FMN1/GREM1 gene region that interacts with BMI.

Study aimed at assessing longitudinal relationships between ASCVD risk factors and incident ASCVD events or all-cause mortality in patients with age-related macular degeneration (AMD) A history of chronic kidney disease and lower vitamin D were significantly associated with all- Cause mortality in AMD.

Study examined differences in resting-state functional network connectivity among individuals with lifetime suicide attempt(s)  v. lifetime self-directed violence thoughts alone. There were no significant between-group differences for between-network, within- network, or whole-brain functional connectivity.

Physical health and chronic medical comorbidities are underestimated, inadequately treated, and often overlooked in psychiatry. A multiorgan characterization of brain and body health in neuropsychiatric disorders may enable systematic evaluation of brain-body health status in patients.

The clinical value of current multifactorial algorithms for individualized assessment of dementia risk remains unclear. This prospective population-based UK Biobank cohort study assessed 4 dementia risk scores at baseline and ascertained incident dementia during the following 10 years. Replication with a 20-year follow-up was based on the British Whitehall II study.

Total and individual IMDs were associated with an increased risk of overall CVDs. It is important to consider primary prevention of CVD in patients with IMD and dysregulation of immune system.

Machine learning has been used to analyse heart failure subtypes, but not across large, distinct, population-based datasets. In the largest study of incident heart failure to date, we identified five machine learning-informed subtypes. The findings might inform aetiological research, clinical risk prediction, and the design of heart failure trials.

Metabolomics provide a comprehensive approach to evaluating the pathogenesis of complex diseases, such as depression. This cohort study used data from participants in the UK Biobank cohort (n = 500 000; aged 37 to 73 years) whose blood was profiled for metabolomics.

Irritability is a heritable core mental trait associated with several psychiatric illnesses. The genomic basis of irritability is unclear. We conducted a genome-wide association study using 379,506 European samples. Multiple genetic loci were associated with irritability and three main psychiatric disorders.

Chronic sputum production impacts on quality of life and is a feature of many respiratory diseases. Identification of the genetic variants associated with chronic sputUM production could improve understanding of its causes and identify new molecular targets for treatment.

Quantifying uncertainty of predictions has been identified as one way to develop more trustworthy artificial intelligence models. When considering their role in a clinical decision support setting, AI classification models should ideally avoid confident wrong predictions and maximise the confidence of correct predictions.

C cohort study used data from the UK Biobank (UKB) and TriNetX. Primary outcomes were liver disease and HCC development as well as liver-associated death. A total of 1 785 491 individuals were evaluated after matching.

People with monogenic familial hypercholesterolemia are at an increased risk of premature coronary heart disease and death. With a prevalence of 1:250, FH is relatively common; but currently there is no population screening strategy. Most carriers are identified late in life, delaying timely and cost-effective interventions.

Frailty is a syndrome characterised by increased vulnerability to stressors, which manifests as higher death risk. Guidelines for frailty management usually entails lifestyle modifications. The mediating role of lifestyle on the excess mortality associated with frailty is unclear. This study estimates the death risk due to frailty that could be avoided with a healthy lifestyle in older adults.

Sex-specific effects on cancer risk have rarely been studied. We performed a prospective study in 442,519 UK Biobank participants. Adiposity-related traits are associated with all but three cancer types.

Cognitive impairment in depression is poorly understood. Family history of depression is a potentially useful risk marker for cognitive impairment. This study used data from the Three Generations at High and Low Risk of Depression Followed Longitudinal (TGS) family study.

Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is an established, independent predictor of cardiovascular disease. Indices derived from the electrocardiogram (ECG) have been used to infer the presence of LVH with limited sensitivity. This study aimed to classify LVH defined by cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging using the 12-lead ECG.

In clinical practice, factors associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD) like albuminuria, education level, or coronary artery calcium (CAC) are often known, but not incorporated in cardiovascular risk prediction models. The aims of the current study were to evaluate a methodology for the flexible addition of risk modifying characteristics on top of SCORE2.

We assess performance and limitations of polygenic risk scores (PRSs) for multiple blood pressure (BP) phenotypes in diverse population groups. PRSs are better predictive of BP in females compared to males, individuals without obesity, and middle-aged (40-60 years) compared to older and younger individuals. For both SBP and DBP, the PRS-CSx based PRS perform best across all race/ethnic backgrounds.

Study looked at associations of visit-to-visit HbA1c variability with incident dementia and hippocampal volume among middle-aged and older adults without diabetes. Dementia was identified using hospital inpatient records with ICD-9 codes. T1-structural brain magnetic resonance imaging was conducted to derive hippocampus volume.

"Sex-scores" are an approach to estimating polyphenotypic "maleness/femaleness" within each binary sex. We conducted sex-specific genome-wide association studies in the UK Biobank cohort. Sex-score genes were enriched for genes differentially expressed in the cervix and across brain tissues, particularly for females.

The relationship between ultra-processed foods (UPF) consumption and incident chronic kidney disease (CKD) remains uncertain. We aimed to investigate the association between UPF consumption and new-onset CKD in participants with and without diabetes. And explore whether genetic risks of kidney diseases may modify the association.

High childhood BMI was associated with a protective effect for seven measures of insulin sensitivity and secretion. However, there was little to no evidence of a direct protective effect on type 2 diabetes.

The unconditional MI approach for association testing is overly conservative and we do not recommend its use in the context of imputed genotypes. Analyzing data with Dosage, MRM, or MI SMCFCS resulted in greater power, including for low frequency variants, compared to unconditional MI while effectively controlling type I error rates.

Artificial intelligence (AI) models can predict atrial fibrillation (AF), a heritable and morbid arrhythmia. The factors forming the basis of risk predictions from AI models are usually not well understood. We hypothesized that there might be a genetic basis for an AI algorithm for predicting the 5-year risk of new-onset AF.

Lipid-lowering medications are widely used to control blood cholesterol levels. We aimed to explore the possible associations between LDL lowering and multiple disease outcomes or biomarkers. All genetic instruments were associated with hyperlipidaemias and cardiovascular diseases.

We aimed to identify potential novel predictors for breast cancer among post-menopausal women. We used an analysis pipeline where machine learning was used for feature selection, prior to risk prediction by classical statistical models. We constructed and compared the "augmented" Cox model (incorporating the two PRS and known predictors) for risk prediction.

Arterial stiffening and changes in brain structure both occur with normal aging and can be exacerbated via acquired health conditions. While cross-sectional associations exist, the longitudinal relationship between arterial stiffness and brain structure remains unclear.

Little is known about the associations between long-term exposure to wildfire-related fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) and mortality. We aimed to explore theses associations using the data from the UK Biobank cohort. We found that a 10 &#956;g/m 3 increase of wildfire- related PM 2. 5 exposure was associated with a 0.4% higher risk of all-cause mortality.

Depression is common in multiple sclerosis (MS) and is associated with faster disability progression. Identification of individuals with a high risk of depression, through polygenic scores (PGS), may facilitate earlier identification. Previous genetic studies of depression considered depression as a primary disorder, not a comorbidity.

There is no homogeneous evidence of whether earlier age at menopause is associated with incident dementia. This community-based cohort study included 154,549 postmenopausal women without dementia from the UK Biobank who were followed up until June 2021.

Poor sleep is associated with an increased risk of infections and all-cause mortality. We examined if poor sleep contributes as a causal risk factor to respiratory infections. We used data on insomnia, influenza and upper respiratory infections from primary care and hospital records.

Brain age refers to age predicted by brain features. Brain age has previously been associated with various health and disease outcomes and suggested as a potential biomarker of general health. Few previous studies have systematically assessed brain age variability.

Vitamin D receptor knockout mice studies confirm the relationship between vitamin D and skeletal muscle. However, causal inference in humans is challenging due to the ethical implications of including vitamin D-deficient participants in randomized trials. We conducted Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses in up to 307,281 participants from the UK Biobank.

Mendelian randomization (MR) studies have provided evidence for beneficial effects of educational attainment on health outcomes in adulthood. Estimates from these studies may have been susceptible to bias from population stratification, assortative mating and indirect genetic effects due to unadjusted parental genotypes. MR using genetic association estimates derived from within-sibship models can avoid these potential biases.

A higher polygenic susceptibility to hypertension (PSH) is known to associate with a higher risk of dementia. We tested the hypothesis that a higher PSH leads to worse cognitive performance in middle-aged persons without dementia. Findings suggest that genetic predisposition to hypertension influences brain health in persons who have not yet developed dementia.

Among 407,943 subjects from the UK Biobank, 17,115 incident cases were documented during a median follow-up of 12.80 years. Compared with subjects without prenatal tobacco exposure, those with in utero tobacco exposure had a higher risk of T2D.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified more than 130 genetic susceptibility loci for migraine. How most of these loci impact migraine development is unknown. To identify novel genes associated with migraine and interpret the transcriptional products of those genes, we conducted a transcriptome- wide association study.

Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a complex disease, where 60 % of risk is due to genetic factors. DVT is either asymptomatic or manifests with unspecific symptoms and, if left untreated, DVT leads to severe complications. Currently, there is still a research gap in DVT prevention.

Chronic back pain (CBP) is a complex heritable trait and a major cause of disability worldwide. We developed and validated a genome-wide polygenic risk score (PRS) for CBP using a large-scale GWAS based on UK Biobank participants of European ancestry. The PRS showed poor overall predictive ability, but individuals from the 99th percentile of PRS distribution had a nearly two-fold increased risk of CBP.

Genotypes causing pregnancy loss and perinatal mortality are depleted among living individuals. To explore genetic causes of recessive lethality, we searched for sequence variants with deficit of homozygosity. We identified 25 genes harboring protein-altering sequence variants. The function of these genes gives insight into the genetics of intrauterine lethality.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) and its interactions with lifestyle factors are associated with termination of the 'healthspan' PRS was generated by weighting 12 healthspan-related genetic loci. Scores were then categorized into three groups in Cox regression models.

Cancer is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. There were 459,169 UK Biobank participants free from cancer at baseline and 48,671 new cancer cases during the 10-year follow-up. Smoking, older age and male sex were positively associated with cancer risk.

Genome-wide polygenic risk scores (GW-PRSs) have been reported to have better predictive ability than PRSs based on genome-wide significance thresholds across numerous traits. We compared the predictive ability of several GW-PRs approaches to a recently developed PRS of 269 established prostate cancer-risk variants from multi-ancestry GWASs.

Exposures to PM 2.5 , PM 10 , NO 2 , and NO x were estimated at geocoded participants' residential addresses. During a median follow-up of 11.75 years, 2517 participants developed incident PH, and 696 died. All ambient air pollutants were associated with increased incidence of PH with different magnitudes.

 Epidemiological studies demonstrate an association between migraine and chronic kidney disease (CKD) The genetic basis underlying the phenotypic association has not been investigated. We aimed to help avoid unnecessary interventions in individuals with migraine through the investigation ofphenotypic and genetic relationships.

The correlations between genetic risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD) with comprehensive brain regions at a regional scale are still not well understood. We aim to explore whether these associations vary across different age stages. We used large existing genome-wide association datasets to calculate polygenic risk score (PRS) for AD.

Evidence on long-term associations between coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and risks of multi-organ complications and mortality in older population is limited. This study evaluates these associations.

A significant minority cannot use existing evidential breath analysis machines. Women were three times more likely to be unable to use them than men. Risk rising with age six-fold from those in their 40s to 2.7% in their 70s. Short stature was a further risk factor.

Using the UK Biobank, we employed random forests, a supervised, interpretable machine learning statistical method. 381 blood metabolites and clinical chemistry variables and 4 urine metabolites were integrated to generate a multivariate random forest-based algorithm. Increased pyruvate was identified as a key biomarker of resilience to MDD and was validated retrospectively in the TwinsUK cohort.

Pituitary adenomas (PAs) are common, usually benign tumors of the anterior pituitary gland. PAs are associated with major clinical effects due to hormonal dysregulation and tumoral impingement on vital brain structures. PAM encodes a multifunctional protein responsible for the essential C-terminal amidation of secreted peptides.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a highly prevalent disease with no specific drug therapy. High-throughput metabolomics present an unprecedented opportunity to identify biomarkers and potentially causal risk factors for NAFLD. We determined the impact of 21 circulating metabolites, 17 lipids, and 132 lipoprotein particle characteristics.

Hereditary erythrocytosis is a rare hematologic disorder characterized by an excess of red blood cell production. We describe a European collaborative study involving a collection of 2,160 patients. We focused our study on the EGLN1 gene and identified 39 germline missense variants including one gene deletion in 47 probands.

Urban living is linked to mental health, but how is this moderated by genetic factors? We carried out sparse canonical correlation analyses to investigate the relationships between urban environments and psychiatric symptoms. We found an environmental profile of social deprivation, air pollution, street network and urban land-use density that was positively correlated with an affective symptom group.

Elevated arterial blood pressure (BP) is a common risk factor for cerebrovascular and cardiovascular diseases. No causal relationship has been established between BP and cerebral white matter (WM) integrity. We performed a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis with individual-level data. We found significantly negative causal effects (FDR-adjusted p)

Cortical asymmetry is a ubiquitous feature of brain organization that is subtly altered in some neurodevelopmental disorders. We lack knowledge of how its development proceeds across life in health. Here, we delineate population-level asymmetry in cortical thickness and surface area in seven datasets and chart asymmetry trajectories across life.

Random measurement error in exposures and confounders can bias exposure-outcome associations but is rarely considered. We aimed to assess random measurement error of all continuous variables in UK Biobank.

Using UK Biobank data, this study included 18,453 adults with T2D. Serum 25(OH)D concentrations were determined by the chemiluminescent immunoassay method.

Molecular quantitative trait loci (xQTLs) are often harnessed to prioritize genes or functional elements underpinning variant-trait associations. We introduce OPERA, a method that jointly analyzes GWAS and multi-omics xQTL summary statistics to enhance the identification of molecular phenotypes. Applying OPERA to summary-level GWAS data for 50 complex traits reveals that 50% of the GWAS signals are shared with at least one molecular phenotype.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a major cause of morbidity with a high prevalence among the elderly and has an established genetic disposition. Surgery is a well-known risk factor for AF; however, it is currently not recognized how much common genetic variants influence the postoperative risk. The purpose of this study was to identify Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms associated with postoperative AF.

It is unclear how cardiac autonomic function, as indicated by heart rate (HR), heart rate variability (HRV), HR increase during exercise, and HR recovery after exercise, is related to blood pressure (BP) We aimed to examine the observational and genetic evidence for a potential causal effect of these HR(V) traits on BP.

Clinical epidemiological studies have found high co-occurrence between suicide attempts (SA) and opioid use disorder (OUD) However, patterns of correlation and causation between them are still not clear due to psychiatric confounding. We utilized raw phenotypes and genotypes from >150,000 UK Biobank samples, and genome-wide association summary statistics from >600,000 individuals with European ancestry.

Study looked at relationships between chronic kidney disease (CKD) with retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) and ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer (GCIPL) thickness profiles of eyes in Asian and White populations. Findings suggest that compromised kidney function is associated with RNFL and GCIPL thinning.

Cortical structure and blood immune markers exhibited predominantly inverse phenotypic associations. White blood cells shared on average 46.24% and 38.64% of trait-influencing genetic variants with surface area and thickness, respectively. Monocyte count exhibited the largest genetic overlap with cortical brain structure.

Daytime napping has been associated with cognitive function and brain health in observational studies. Using Mendelian randomization, we found an association between habitual daytime napping and larger total brain volume. No evidence of horizontal pleiotropy was found.

Liver disease activity (cT1) and fat (proton density fat fraction [PDFF]) were measured using LiverMultiScan&#174; between January 2016 and February 2020 in the UK Biobank imaging sub-study. Liver disease activity, by cT1, was independently associated with a higher risk of incident CVD and all-cause mortality, independent of pre-existing metabolic syndrome, liver fibrosis or fat.

The melanocortin 3 receptor (MC3R) has recently emerged as a critical regulator of pubertal timing, linear growth, and the acquisition of lean mass in humans and mice. In population-based studies, heterozygous carriers of deleterious variants in MC3R report a later onset of puberty than noncarriers.

We analysed data from the UK Biobank, consisting of 17 206 participants with T2DM. Patients with high socioeconomic deprivation had higher odds of reporting usual difficulties falling asleep or sleeping through the night. They were also more likely to use at least one hypnotic medication.

It is unknown whether the well-known association between vitamin D deficiency and mortality could be explained by the immune system modulating effects of vitamin D. Vitamin D deficiency is associated with disadvantageous levels of blood cell count-based but not CRP-based biomarkers of SIR. Potential of clinical interventions against both vitamin D and underlying causes of systemic inflammation should be explored.

The aim of this study was to investigate the possible interaction of mitochondrial dysfunction and inflammatory cytokines in the risk of anxiety and depression. A mitochondria-wide association(MiWAS) and interaction analysis was performed to investigate effects of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA)×C-reactive protein (CRP) on the risks of self-reported anxiety, depression and general anxiety disorder.

Menopause marks the end of female reproductive period. Age at menopause reflects the length of exposure to endogenous estrogen. Evidence on the association between age at natural, surgical menoppause, and risk of dementia has been inconsistent.

UK Biobank participants of European ancestry with available spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT) passing quality control metrics and exome sequencing data were included. Regression analyses using both linear and recessive models tested for the association between the p.Asn1868Ile variant and total retinal thickness, clinically relevant segmented layer thicknesses, and visual acuity.

Cigarette smoking was associated with &#8275;2-fold higher rates of severe IRD. Incidence of all severe IRDs were positively associated with amount of cigarettes smoked. HRs for each IRD (except influenza) also declined with increasing duration since quitting.

Premature ovarian insufficiency (POI) affects 1% of women and is a leading cause of infertility. It is often considered to be a monogenic disorder, with pathogenic variants in ~100 genes described in the literature. We sought to systematically evaluate the penetrance of variants in these genes using exome sequence data in 104,733 women from the UK Biobank.

High and low birth weight independently associated with increased cardiovascular disease risk in adulthood. Clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential predicts incident cardiovascular disease independent of traditional cardiovascular risk factors. Whether birth weight predicts development of CHIP later in life is unknown.

Genetic maps are fundamental to genetic research. But current methods are not efficient at leveraging very large sample sizes. In this work, we propose a fast and memory-efficient method for estimating genetic maps.

The impact of an elevated body mass index (BMI) on atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk is debated. We developed a cardiovascular health score (CVHS) based on 4 lifestyle and 6 cardiometabolic parameters. The impact of the CVHS on incident ASCVD (15 699 events) alone and in BMI and waist-to-hip ratio categories was assessed using Cox proportional hazards.

Lifestyle risk factors are a modifiable target in atrial fibrillation (AF) management. The relative contribution of individual lifestyle risk factors to AF development has not been described. Development and validation of an AF lifestyle risk score to identify individuals at risk of AF are the aims of the study.

Low vitamin D status has been linked to an increased risk for various inflammatory diseases. This study aims to investigate the associations of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) concentrations with COPD risk and survival.

Life's Essential 8 (LE8) score, the recently updated metric for promoting cardiovascular health (CVH), was evaluated. Individuals with optimal CVH had 44% (95% CI, 0.48-0.64) lower incident all-cause dementia risk. A 10-point increment in LE8 was associated with higher fluid intelligence scores.

Sleep behaviors are potentially modifiable risk factors for common mental disorders and cardiovascular disease (CVD) However, the associations between combined sleep behaviors and common mental. disorders among individuals with CVD remain unclear. A total of 18,776 participants with a history of CVD from UK Biobank were included.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a heterogeneous illness caused by genetic and environmental factors. Previous genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified many genetic variants associated with T2D and found evidence of differing genetic profiles by age-at-onset.

Personality and cognitive function are heritable mental traits whose genetic foundations may be distributed across interconnected brain functions. Previous studies have typically treated these complex mental traits as distinct constructs. We identified 431 significantly associated genetic loci with evidence of abundant shared genetic associations.

The Olink&#174; Explore-3072 platform quantitated 2941 proteins in 496 Liverpool Lung Project plasma samples. Feature selection with bootstrapping identified differentially expressed proteins, subsequently modelled for lung cancer prediction and validated in UK Biobank data.

Cancer-associated thrombosis (CAT) is common and associated with mortality. We estimated CAT rate by cancer sites and inherited factors among cancer patients. The 12-month CAT rate after cancer diagnosis was 2.37% overall but varied considerably among cancer sites.

Short habitual sleep is prevalent, with unknown consequences for brain health and cognitive performance. Some people can cope with less sleep without obvious negative associations with brain morphometry. The slightly lower performance on tests of general cognitive abilities warrants closer examination in natural settings.

Sickle cell trait (SCT) is common in African descendants. Its association with several adverse pregnancy outcomes (APOs) has been reported but remains inconsistent. The objectives of this study are to test associations of SCT with APOs in non-Hispanic Black women.

MECP2, an X-linked gene, encodes a chromatin-associated protein with a role in gene transcription. Loss-of-function mutations usually cause Rett syndrome, a severe neurodevelopmental disorder. Early pubertal development has been shown in several patients with Rett Syndrome. The aim of this study was to explore whether MecP2 variants are associated with central precocious puberty.

Over 100 genes have been associated with autism. Little is known about the prevalence of variants affecting them in individuals without a diagnosis of autism. These variants are associated with a small but significant decrease in fluid intelligence, qualification level and income.

A non-parametric method has been proposed to impute the genetic component of a trait for a large set of genotyped individuals. The imputed trait may contain linear, non-linear and epistatic effects of genetic variants. We illustrate an application to a UK Biobank subset of individuals (n &#8776; 80K) with both body mass index (BMI) GWAS data and metabolomic data.

The association between C-Reactive protein (CRP), a marker associated with inflammation, and cognitive performance remains unclear. Brain structure may well mediate this relationship: immune processes play crucial roles in shaping and maintaining brain structure.

The heritability of the nuclei ranged from 0.17 to 0.33. Shared variants were identified between specific nuclei and autism spectrum disorder, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia.

Using 6084 Icelandic parent-offspring trios we estimate 63.7 (95% CI: 61.9-65.4) microsatellite de novo mutations (mDNMs) per offspring per generation. Paternal mDNMs occur at longer repeats than maternal ones, which are in turn larger.

Coronary artery disease (CAD), type 2 diabetes (T2D) and depression are among the leading causes of chronic morbidity and mortality worldwide. Epidemiological studies indicate a substantial degree of multimorbidity, which may be explained by shared genetic influences. Research exploring the presence of pleiotropic variants and genes common to CAD, T2D and depression is lacking.

The VITAL trial suggested a possible protective effect for autoimmune diseases but uncertainties remain. We investigated potential causal effects of vitamin D on composite and individual autoimmune diseases using Mendelian randomization. Genetically-predicted vitamin D was associated with lower risk of diseases in the autoinflammation group but not the autoimmunity group.

Polygenic Risk Scores (PRS) can determine genetic predisposition to disease based on Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) within the genome. PRS analyses within non-European samples are extremely limited. We applied a multi-ethnic PRS to a UK-based cohort to understand genetic contribution to COVID-19 variability.

Depression is associated with an increased risk of physical illness, but the most common causes of hospitalization among people with depression are unclear. In the main analysis, severe/moderately severe depression was associated with the incidence of 29 nonoverlapping conditions requiring hospital treatment. The highest cumulative incidence was observed for endocrine and related internal organ diseases.

Mounting evidence has linked air pollution with dementia and temperature modifies the association. However, their interactions on dementia are unclear. We used a prospective cohort study (the UK Biobank) included 498 660 adults without cognitive impairment or dementia at baseline and followed up for 11.50 years.

Metformin, a first-line medication for type 2 diabetes, might also have a protective effect against ageing-related diseases, but so far little experimental evidence is available. We sought to assess the target-specific effect of metformin on biomarkers of ageing in the UK Biobank.

Currently used spirometry measures of airflow obstruction are influenced by demographics, predominantly by age. We analyzed spirometry data of normal subjects enrolled in the 2007-2008, 2009-2010, and 2011-2012 NHANES cohorts. Relationships between demographics and lung function were tested using generalized linear models. A diagnostic threshold was developed for Parameter D using population-based percentiles.

Dementia risk scores have had limited success in consistently identifying at-risk individuals. We aimed to develop and validate a novel dementia risk score for a midlife UK population. We used the Cox LASSO regression to select the strongest predictors of incident dementia from 28 candidate predictors.

Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative movement disorder with a long latent phase. Reliable predictive biomarkers that could transform efforts to develop neuroprotective treatments remain to be identified. We investigated the predictive value of accelerometry in identifying prodromal Parkinson's disease in the general population.

Early stress increases the risk for psychiatric disorders. Glucocorticoids are stress mediators that regulate transcriptional activity and morphology in the hippocampus, which is implicated in the pathophysiology of multiple psychiatric conditions. We aimed to establish the relevance of hippocampal glucocortioid-induced transcriptional activities as a mediator of the effects of early life on later psychopathology in humans.

Omega-3 fatty acids may be protective against bipolar disorder (BD) Omega-6 fatty acids and an increased omega-6:omega-3 ratio may increase the risk of BD. This causal relationship has not yet been established.

Skull bone mineral density (SK-BMD) provides a suitable trait for the discovery of key genes in bone biology, particularly to intramembranous ossification, not captured at other skeletal sites. We perform a genome-wide association meta-analysis (n ~ 43,800) of SK- BMD, identifying 59 loci, collectively explaining 12.5% of the trait variance.

Study aimed to evaluate the association of central obesity with retinal neurodegeneration. Retinal ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer thickness (GCIPLT) measured by optical coherence tomography. Cross-sectional analysis showed GCIPLT was significantly thinner in normal BMI/high WHR individuals. But thinner GCIP LT was not observed in individuals with obesity/normal WHR.

Neural ADMIXTURE is a neural network autoencoder that follows the same modeling assumptions as the current standard algorithm. One month of continuous compute using ADMI XTURE can be reduced to just hours with Neural ADMIXURE.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) based on benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) or PV-related SNPs may also predict the risk of aggressive PCa or PCa death. We evaluated a PRS using 21 BPH/PV-associated SNPs, two established PCa risk-related PRS and 10 guideline-recommended hereditary cancer risk genes.

Previous findings for the effects of fish oil on COVID-19-related outcomes remain largely inconclusive. Large population-based studies in real-life settings are required to explore the impact of habitual fish oil use on SARS-CoV-2 infection.

 Identification of individuals at highest risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) remains an important public health need. Prior studies have developed genome-wide polygenic scores to enable risk stratification, reflecting the substantial inherited component to CAD risk. Here we develop a new and significantly improved polygenic score for CAD, termed GPSMult.

Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is a monogenic disease that causes high low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and higher risk of premature coronary heart disease. FH-causing variants and their association with LDL-C in non-European populations remains largely unknown. We aimed to estimate the prevalence of FH across 3 major ancestry groups in the United Kingdom.

HbA1c levels are significantly associated with worse brain health independent of type 2 diabetes (T2D) diagnosis (vs. not), according to a UK Biobank study. We found an association between higher HbA 1c levels and poorer performance on symbol digit substitution scores (standardized beta [&#946;] = -0.022, P = .001)

GlycA levels were also associated with recurrent gout flares among incident gout cases. Mendelian randomization corroborated a potential causal role for GlycA on gout risk. This prospective, population-based study implicates Glyc a, a stable long-term biomarker reflecting neutrophil overactivity.

The relationship of air pollutants and residential exposure to greenspace with severe liver disease remains inconclusive. We included 427,697 participants without prior liver diseases from UK Biobank. A higher air pollution score was significantly associated with an increased risk of new-onset severe Liver disease.

Higher neuroticism scores were associated with smaller LV and RV end-diastolic volumes, lower LV mass, greater concentricity (higher LV mass to volume ratio), and higher native T1. Greater neuroticism was also linked to poorer LV and. RV function (lower stroke volumes) and greater arterial stiffness.

Obesity-induced adipose tissue dysfunction can cause low-grade inflammation and downstream obesity comorbidities. Although preadipocytes may contribute to this pro-inflammatory environment, the underlying mechanisms are unclear. Here we show that the co-accessibility of open chromatin, i.e. compartmentalization of chromatin activity, is altered in the higher vs lower BMI MZ siblings.

Small intestinal neuroendocrine tumor (SI-NET) is a rare disease, but its incidence has increased over the past 4 decades. Understanding the genetic risk factors underlying SI-NETs can help in disease prevention and provide clinically beneficial markers for diagnosis.

The extent of differences between genetic risks associated with various asthma subtypes is still unknown. To better understand the heterogeneity of asthma, we employed an unsupervised method to identify genetic variants specifically associated with asthma subtype. Our study revealed the genetic variation between clusters that were segmented based on onset age and lung function.

Young onset of type 2 diabetes (T2D) was associated with higher risks of vascular complications and mortality. Among clinical risk factors, obesity had the highest HR at any age. Other risks associated with T2D onset at age 50.0 years and younger included dyslipidemia (3.50, 2.91-4.20)

Few studies have systematically evaluated the combined predictive ability of blood biomarkers for mortality risk. We developed sex-specific blood biomarker scores for predicting all-cause mortality risk in a training set of 247,503 participants from England and Wales. The highest tertile showed a hazard ratio of 5.36 (95% confidence interval [CI] 5.04-5.71) in men and 4.23 ( 95% CI 3.87-4.62) in women.

Excess fat impacts hormones, which have been implicated in carcinogenesis. We investigated obesity-related hormones and cardia gastric cancer (CGC) and non-cardia gastrial cancer (NCGC) risk. Insulin-like growth-factor-1 was positively associated with CGC and NCGC in EPIC men.

Vitamin D deficiency and insufficiency were associated with increased mortality from multiple common cancers. The potential to reduce cancer mortality by vitamin D supplementation in populations with low 25(OH)D levels should be further explored.

Population-based surveys included 30,721 Malay, 10,865 Indian and 25,296 Chinese adults. White participants were taller with more appendicular lean mass. For BMI and fat mass, positive associations with SBP and HbA1c were strongest among the Chinese and Malay and weaker in White participants.

Study aimed to examine the association between exercise workload, resting heart rate (RHR), maximum heart rate and the risk of developing ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) Study included all participants from the UK Biobank who had undergone submaximal exercise stress testing.

Genome-wide polygenic risk scores (PRS) for lifestyle disorders, like Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), are useful in identifying at-risk individuals early on in life, and to guide them towards healthier lifestyles. The current study aimed at developing PRS for the Indian population using imputed genotype data from UK Biobank.

Both genetic and early life risk factors play important roles in the pathogenesis and progression of adult depression. We have developed a polygenic risk score to partly capture the genetic liability to depression. Joint predictive models improved risk stratification despite limited improvement in magnitude. These models may be explored as tools to better identify individuals at high risk of depression.

A positive genomic correlation between schizophrenia and breast cancer was observed. Mendelian randomization demonstrated a significantly increased risk of overall breast cancer for genetically predisposed schizophrenia. Cross-trait meta-analysis identified 23 pleiotropic loci. Gene-based analysis revealed 27 shared genes.

Identifying prediagnostic neurodegenerative disease is a critical issue. We trained a Bayesian machine learning neural network model to generate a neuroimaging phenotype and AD score. We then applied the model to a healthy population in the UK Biobank study to identify a cohort at risk for Alzheimer's disease.

Missingness Adapted Group-wise Informed Clustered (MAGIC)-LASSO. The method was developed to predict unmeasured Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) scores. Phenotypic correlation between measured and predicted total score was 0.67 while genetic correlations between independent subjects was high >0.86.

Study looked at data set from UK BioBank of U.K. citizens. Results suggest that combat exposure plays a role in several negative outcomes related to alcohol behavior and subjective well-being.

People with severe mental illness have a higher risk of cardiometabolic disease than the general population. We aimed to determine whether signals in the DCC locus, implicated in psychiatric and cardimetabolic traits, were shared or distinct. Significant associations were observed between DCC variants and smoking, anhedonia, body mass index (BMI) and mood instability.

The characterization of gene-environment interactions (GEIs) can provide detailed insights into the biological mechanisms underlying complex diseases. Despite recent interest in GEIs for rare variants, published GEI tests are underpowered for an extremely small proportion of causal rare variants in a gene or a region. By extending the aggregated Cauchy association test (ACAT), we propose threeGEI tests to address this issue.

Allelic series are of candidate therapeutic interest because of the existence of a dose-response relationship between the functionality of a gene and the degree or severity of a phenotype. We define an allelic series as a collection of variants in which increasingly deleterious mutations lead to increasingly large phenotypic effects. We developed a gene-based rare-variant association test specifically targeted to identifying genes containing these series.

Measurement error in polygenic indices (PGIs) attenuates the estimation of their effects in regression models. We analyze and compare two approaches addressing this attenuation bias: Obviously Related Instrumental Variables (ORIV) and the PGI Repository Correction (PGI-RC)

Valproate is a candidate for ischemic stroke prevention due to its anti-atherosclerotic effects in vivo. In observational studies, confounding by indication precludes causal conclusions. We applied Mendelian randomization to determine whether genetic variants that influence seizure response among valproate users associate with stroke.

The aim of this study was to provide quantitative evidence of the use of polygenic risk scores for systematically identifying individuals for invitation for full formal cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk assessment. We modeled the implications of initiating guideline-recommended statin therapy after prioritizing individuals.

Premature menopause is a risk factor for accelerated cardiovascular aging, but underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This study investigated the role of leukocyte telomere length (LTL), a marker of cellular aging and genomic instability, in the association with cardiovascular disease.

The aim of this study was to provide quantitative evidence of the use of polygenic risk scores for systematically identifying individuals for invitation for full formal cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk assessment. A total of 108 685 participants aged 40 to 69 years, with measured biomarkers, linked primary care records, and genetic data in UK Biobank were used.

Depression is a common comorbidity of type 2 diabetes. We assessed the causal relationships and shared genetics between them. Mediation analysis indicated that 36.5% (12.4-57.6%) of the effect from depression on type 2 Diabetes was mediated by BMI.

C-reactive protein (CRP) is a sensitive biomarker of inflammation with moderate heritability. The role of rare functional genetic variants in relation to serum CRP is understudied. We aimed to examine gene mutation burden of protein-altering (PA) and loss-of-function (LOF) variants.

Maternal rather than paternal age has an evolutionarily conserved effect on offspring adult traits in humans, Drosophila, and Caenorhabditis elegans. Old worms transmit aged mitochondria with a donut-like shape to offspring. These mitochondria are rejuvenated in the offspring's early life, with their morphology fully restored before adulthood.

Bone mineral density (BMD) is an essential predictor of osteoporosis and fracture. We conducted a genome-wide trajectory analysis of BMD and analyzed the BMD change. A total of 52 genes associated with BMD trajectory mean were identified. The top three significant genes were WNT16, FAM3C and CPED1.

UK Biobanks participants with gradable fundus images and without a history of diagnosed CHD at recruitment were included for analysis. During a median follow-up of 11.0 years, 3211 incident CHD events occurred.

Extracellular ATP is elevated in hypertensive mice and humans and may trigger immune activation through the purinergic receptor P2X7. P2RX7 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) are associated with hypertension.

Early-onset colorectal cancer (EOCRC) has been increasing worldwide. Potential risk factors may have occurred in childhood or adolescence. We investigated the associations between early-life factors and EOCRC risk. We focused on long-term or recurrent antibiotic use (LRAU) and its interaction with genetic factors.

Treatment with sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2)-inhibitors reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease and mortality, but the mechanism is unclear. A functional genetic variant in SLC5A2 was associated with a lower risk of heart failure, myocardial infarction, ischaemic heart disease, and all-cause mortality. These effects were at most minimally mediated through lower plasma glucose.

Psoriasis is a common autoinflammatory disease influenced by complex interactions between environmental and genetic factors. The influence of long-term air pollution exposure on psoriasis remains underexplored. This prospective cohort study used data from the UK Biobank.

Vitamin D deficiency can cause atrial fibrillation and ischemic stroke, according to a new study. The study looked at the link between vitamin D deficiency and young onset of stroke. It found no link between the two.

The frequency of the apolipoprotein E &#603;4 allele and vascular risk factors differs among ethnic groups. We enrolled 2314 cognitively unimpaired individuals aged &#8805;45 years from Korea and 6942 individuals from the UK. Brain age was defined using the brain age index. Age, hypertension and diabetes were considered predictors.

Study aimed to determine the associations between accelerometer-measured sleep durations and the risks of incident cardiovascular disease (CVD) and CVD-related mortality. A total of 92,261 participants (mean age: 62.4+/-7.8 years, 56.4% female) were included in UK Biobank between 2013 and 2015.

Study included 20,338 participants with type 2 diabetes from UK Biobank. After multivariable adjustment, hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for patients with fish oil were 0.90 (0.85, 0.97) for composite macrovascular complications. In addition, higher n-3 PUFA levels, especially docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), were associated with lower risks.

Large-scale prospective cohort study. Incidences of depression and anxiety were ascertained from hospital inpatient records. Lowest risk for depression occurred at 550, 390, 180 and 560 min/week.

Uric acid has been linked to various disease outcomes. However, it remains unclear whether uric acid-lowering therapy could be repurposed as a treatment for conditions other than gout. Uric acid lowering drugs exerted a protective role in reducing the risk of coronary atherosclerosis, heart failure, occlusion of cerebral arteries and peripheral vascular disease.

We examined associations of vegetarianism with metabolic biomarkers using traditional and genetic epidemiology. Cholesterol measures plus vitamin D were significantly lower in vegetarians, while triglycerides were higher. Gene-based interaction tests revealed two significant genes, RNF168 in testosterone and DOCK4 in estimated glomerular filtration rate.

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is associated with adverse clinical outcomes that may differ according to PCOS phenotype. Using UK Biobank data, we compared the incidence of type 2 diabetes (T2D), metabolic dysfunction associated steatotic liver disease, cardiovascular disease (CVD), hormone-dependent cancers, and dementia between PCOS participants and age- and body mass index-matched controls.

We examined the progression of multimorbidity among 190 diseases among over 500,000 UK Biobank participants over 12.7 years of follow-up. Using a machine learning method for causal inference, we analyzed patterns of how diseases influenced and were influenced by others in females and males. We show the top influential and influenced diseases largely overlap between sexes.

Only a few large systematic studies have evaluated the impact of copy number variants (CNVs) on common diseases. Several million individuals have been genotyped on single nucleotide variation arrays, which could be used for genome-wide CNVs association studies.

Waist circumference (WC) is a significant indicator of body adiposity and is associated with increased mortality and morbidity of cardiovascular diseases. Little is known about WC association with overall diet quality, genetic risk score and gene-nutrient interaction.

A total of 273,331 women from the United Kingdom were recruited between 2006 and 2010 in the UK Biobank (UKB) study. During a median follow-up of 10.4 years, 47 women with surgical premature menopause, 244 women with natural prematureMenopause and 4724 women without premature Menopause developed T2D.

Study looked at depression-related genome-wide association study (GWAS) Meta summary data was downloaded from the official website of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium. It involved 170 756 cases and 329 443 controls.

It is unclear whether poverty and mental illness are causally related. We examined evidence of causal links between poverty and nine mental illnesses. The effects of poverty were reduced by approximately 30% when we adjusted for cognitive ability.

Higher neuroticism was associated with an 11% higher risk of incident dementia, especially vascular dementia. Associations were not modified by genetic predisposition to dementia. Mental and vascular conditions mediated the association of neuroticism with all-cause dementia.

There are few existing studies that investigate the risk of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) associated with long-term exposure to air pollutants. This study aimed to explore associations between air pollutants and incident SLE.

Abdominal obesity increases the risk for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), now known as metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease. We identified 17 colocalized abdominal obesity GWAS variants, regulating 17 adipose cell-type marker genes. Knocking down two of the 17 genes, PPP2R5A and SH3PXD2B, shows a marked decrease in adipocyte lipidation.

The circulating proteome offers insights into the biological pathways that underlie disease. Here, we test relationships between 1,468 Olink protein levels and the incidence of 23 age-related diseases and mortality.

Over 1,000 genetic loci are associated with BMI, but less is known about the genetic contribution to adiposity trajectories over adulthood. We derive adiposity-change phenotypes from 24.5 million primary-care health records in over 740,000 individuals. We identify novel associations with BMI-change at six independent loci, including rs429358.

Exome sequencing data across 304,119 white British individuals from UK Biobank. Twenty-five variants are associated with alcohol consumption through single variant analysis and thirteen genes through gene-based analysis. GIGYF1 and ANKRD12 show enrichment in brain function-related pathways.

Dynapenic obesity is associated with increased risks of dementia, especially in participants under 65 years and non-&#949;4-carrier. This suggests the importance of managing dynapenic obese in the prevention of cognition-related disorders.

The relationship between chronic pain and cardiometabolic multimorbidity remains unclear. The purpose of this study was to investigate the association. Chronic pain was assessed in diverse anatomical sites including the head, face, neck/shoulder, stomach/abdominal area and back.

Varicose veins are one of the common human diseases. The role of genetics in its development is not fully understood. We conducted an exome-wide association study of VV using whole-exome sequencing data from the UK Biobank. PIEZO1 was the closest gene associated with VV.

Low-grade inflammation score (INFLA-score) is a composite index that assesses chronic inflammatory status using multiple inflammatory markers. Its correlation with cardiometabolic diseases (CMDs) in obese populations remains unclear. We conducted a prospective cohort study involving 79,160 participants with obesity (BMI &#8805; 30 kg/m2)

We analyzed data from 364,716 UK Biobank participants without prior neurological conditions. Handgrip strength was measured with a dynamometer, and walking pace was self-reported. Cox proportional hazards models assessed hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals for DCM development.

PD is a progressive neurodegeneration disease characterized by cardinal motor symptoms such as bradykinesia and tremor. It is hypothesized that immune system dysfunction may contribute to PD. autoimmune diseases may influence the risk of incident PD.

The metabolic profile predating the onset of Parkinson's disease (PD) remains unclear. We aim to investigate the metabolites associated with incident and prevalent PD and their predictive values in the UK Biobank participants. A panel of 249 metabolites was quantified using a nuclear magnetic resonance analytical platform.

GWAS meta-analysis of 110,945 cases and 1,084,290 controls. 290 sequence variants at 225 loci are associated with AITD. Of these variants, 115 are previously unreported. Multiomics analysis yields 235 candidate genes outside the MHC-region.

Gene-Metabolite Association Prediction (GeneMAP) can generate accurate predictions and pinpoint genes that are distant from variants implicated by GWAS. Analysis identified solute carrier family 25 member 48 (SLC25A48) as a genetic determinant of plasma choline levels. Mechanistically, SLC 25A48 loss strongly impairs mitochondrial choline import and synthesis.

Early evidence that patients with (multiple) pre-existing diseases are at highest risk for severe COVID-19 has been instrumental in the pandemic. However, systematic studies exploring the breadth of medical diagnoses are scarce but may help to understand severe CO VID-19 among patients at supposedly low risk.MethodsWe systematically harmonized >12 million primary care and hospitalisation health records from ~500,000 UK Biobank participants.

Inhibitors of the interleukin 13 (IL-13) pathway, such as dupilumab, are licensed for atopic dermatitis and asthma. We aimed to investigate whether genetically mimicked IL-13 inhibition is associated with risk of psoriatic arthritis (PsA) and psoriasis. Outcome genetic data were taken from studies of PsA, Psoriasis, and related spondyloarthritis traits. Colocalization analysis was performed to examine genetic confounding.

Previous studies on the associations between socioeconomic status (SES) and cutaneous malignant melanoma (CMM) failed to distinguish the effects of different SES factors under an individual-data-based prospective study design. In multistate analyses, good household income was independently associated with an increased risk of CMM in situ and invasive CMM.

Large sample sizes can significantly improve prediction accuracies. For studies of certain clinical populations or focused neuroscience inquiries, small-scale datasets often remain a necessity. We demonstrated a large improvement over classical kernel ridge regression when translating models from a single source dataset to the Human Connectome Project Young Adults dataset.

Germline genetic testing is now offered to 'population-type' breast cancer patients. Wide variation in the genes included in the study. Meta-analysed odds ratios (ORs) and frequencies of PVs in population-type cases.

Hyperuricemia (HUA) has emerged as the second most prevalent metabolic disorder. Early detection and prognosis prediction for HUA and gout are crucial for pre-emptive interventions. A multimodal machine learning-based ISHUA marker enables personalized risk stratification.

Study aimed to develop predictive models for PD risk that combine plasma proteins and easily accessible clinical-demographic variables. Key predictors identified included age, years of education, history of traumatic brain injury, and serum creatinine.

Beta-blockers reduce risk and improve the prognosis of PC. Perioperative use of a nonselective beta-blocker improves outcomes after radical prostatectomy. A related class of drugs, beta-2 adrenergic agonists, has received little attention.

The association between psychiatric disorders and subsequent CVD hospitalization is not modified by predisposition to CVD. Hypertension, acute myocardial infarction, and stroke are three initial CVDs linking psychiatric disorders to other CVD sequelae. There is a need to timely intervention on these targets to prevent further CVA sequelae among individuals with common psychiatric disorders.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) for breast cancer have a clear clinical utility in risk prediction. PRS transferability across populations and ancestry groups is hampered by population-specific factors. We assess the transferability of a breast cancer PRS composed of 313 risk variants in a Brazilian trihybrid admixed ancestries.

The most near-term clinical application of genome-wide association studies in lung cancer is a polygenic risk score (PRS) Smoking with high genetic risk was associated with a 17-fold increase in the odds of lung cancer compared to individuals who never smoked and with low genetic risk.

Previous studies have observed the protective effects of alcohol and the deleterious effects of smoking on chronic pain in the general population. We found that alcohol consumption was negatively associated with headache in depression group. We observed that smoking was positively associated with back pain in depression.

Many variants that we inherit from our parents or acquire de novo or somatically are rare, limiting the precision with which we can associate them with disease. We performed exhaustive saturation genome editing (SGE) of BAP1, the disruption of which is linked to tumorigenesis and altered neurodevelopment. We also characterized variants in a large population-ascertained tumor collection.

Study included 17,675 participants with baseline pre-diabetes/diabetes. Of 168 metabolites, 118 were identified as candidate metabolomic fingerprints for future DR development. Glucose, lactate, and citrate were among the fingerprints validated in the GDES cohort.

In recent years, significant progress has been achieved in comprehending the impact of alcohol consumption on adverse health outcomes. However, the quality of evidence remains limited. Our objective was to conduct a prospective study examining the relationship between different types of alcoholic beverages and the risk of all-cause mortality, cardiovascular disease (CVD), and chronic kidney disease (KD)

 reduced kidney function is a risk factor of cardiovascular and all-cause mortality. It is unclear whether integrating multiple measured markers may improve mortality risk prediction. We conducted an exploratory factor analysis (EFA) of serum creatinine- and cystatin C-based estimated glomerular filtration rate.

The relationship between physical frailty, age-related conditions, and the incidence of degenerative valvular heart disease (VHD) remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the potential association between frailty and the development of VHD. Participants from the UK Biobank were categorized into three groups based on the frailty phenotype.

Artificial sweeteners are widely popular worldwide as substitutes for sugar or caloric sweeteners. There are still several important unknowns and controversies regarding their associations with cardiovascular disease (CVD) We aimed to assess the association and subgroup variability between artificial sweeteners and CVD and CVA mortality in the UK Biobank cohort.

The independent role of body fat distribution and fat-free mass in heart failure (HF) risk is unclear. We investigated the role of different body composition compartments in risk of HF. Overall, HF risk was more strongly associated with central adiposity (waist circumference) than general adiposity.

Shift work was associated with higher risk of dementia (HR 1.29, 95 % CI 1.10-1.52), anxiety, depression and sleep disorders. Shift work was correlated with decreasing volume of various brain regions. Increased immune response and glucose levels are common pathways linking shift work to these disorders.

Using large-scale factor analysis, we distill hundreds of variables (diagnoses, assessments and survey items) into 35 latent constructs. We use data from unrelated individuals with predominantly estimated European genetic ancestry in UK Biobank. These factors recapitulate known disease classifications, disentangle elements of socioeconomic status and highlight the relevance of psychiatric constructs to health.

Metabolic status, metabolic transitions, and genetic susceptibility collectively impact cardiovascular outcomes and all-cause mortality across diverse body mass index (BMI) categories. We included a total of 481,576 participants at baseline.

The associations between specific types of sugary beverages and major chronic respiratory diseases remain relatively unexplored. This study aimed to investigate the associations of sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs) with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma. The study included 210,339 participants from the UK Biobank.

Dementia is an important disease burden among the elderly, and its occurrence may be profoundly affected by environmental factors. Evidence of the relationship between air pollution and dementia is emerging, but the extent to which this can be offset by lifestyle factors remains ambiguous.

Cognitive impairment is a major determinant of functional outcomes in schizophrenia. Understanding of the biological mechanisms underpinning cognitive dysfunction in the disorder remains incomplete. We identify latent cognitive factors capturing genetic liabilities to 12 cognitive traits measured in the UK Biobank.

Vitamin D deficiency has been linked to various chronic pain conditions. However, randomized trials of vitamin D supplementation have had mixed results. We undertake a Mendelian randomization investigation in UK Biobank.

Mental health conditions are characterized by higher-order transdiagnostic factor structures. However, the phenotypic and genetic structures of various psychopathology diagnoses may differ, raising questions about the validity and utility of these factors. Here we study the phenotypes and genetic factor structures of ten psychiatric conditions.

Study included 11,997 patients with CHD from the UK Biobank. During a median follow up of 12.5 years, we documented 3366 recurrent cardiovascular events, 1068 myocardial infarction, 1829 heart failure events, 703 strokes, and 934 cardiovascular deaths. biomarkers including renal function and inflammation collectively explained 47.6%-87.7% of the associations.

DNA methylation has been implicated in the pathogenesis of numerous complex diseases. The exact methylation sites that play key roles in these processes remain elusive. One strategy to identify putative causal CpG sites and enhance disease etiology understanding is to conduct methylome-wide association studies.

It remains largely unknown whether individualised longitudinal changes of brain imaging features can be predicted based only on the baseline brain images. We explore this possibility using longitudinal data of multiple modalities from UK Biobank brain imaging, with around 3,500 subjects. Our study contributes a new theoretical framework for longitudinal brain imaging studies.

Study included 73,729 adults from the UK Biobank who wore an Axivity AX3 accelerometer on their dominant wrist for at least 3 days. High sedentary time was associated with higher risk of CVD mortality only among participants with low MVPA (HR 1.96; 95% CI 1.23 to 3.14).

Disease susceptibility of chronic axonal polyneuropathy is not fully explained by clinical risk factors. We determined the contribution of common genetic variants in chronic axonic polyneurpathy in the general population. Chronic axonalpolyneurophy was present in 2,357 of the 458,567 participants and 54.3% of the total population was female.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and spinal degenerative disorders (SDD) are common diseases that frequently coexist. Traditional observational studies and recent Mendelian randomization (MR) studies have demonstrated conflicting evidence on the association between T2DM and SDD.

Age-related chronic inflammatory lung diseases impose a threat on public health, including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) However, their etiology and potential targets have not been clarified. We performed genome-wide meta-analysis for IPF with the largest sample size (2883 cases and 741,929 controls) and leveraged the summary statistics of COPD (17,547 cases and 617,598 controls) The mediation effect was assessed using leukocyte telomere length (LTL) and single-cell transcriptome analysis was performed.

High-quality diets have been increasingly acknowledged as a promising candidate to counter the growing prevalence of mental health disorders. This study aims to investigate the prospective associations of adhering to the EAT-Lancet reference diet with incident depression, anxiety and their co-occurrence in 180,446 UK Biobank participants.

Haplotype estimation, or phasing, has gained significant traction in large-scale projects. Statistical methods excel in resolving common variants, but they still struggle at rare variants due to the lack of statistical information. In this study we introduce SAPPHIRE, a new method that leverages whole-genome sequencing data to enhance the precision of haplotype calls produced by statistical phasing.

No study has examined the joint association of diet and physical activity (PA) with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and hypertension. The aim of this study is to examine the joint associations of PA and diet with incidence of type T2D and hypertension, as a combined outcome and separately.

Evidence on weight transitions across life stages and cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) is limited. We aimed to explore weight transition patterns from birth to childhood to midlife and risk of incident CVDs. A total of 193,905 participants from the UK Biobank were included. Weight at birth, childhood, and midlife were collected at baseline (2006-2010) CVD outcomes were collected in 2022.

Study looked at polygenic risk scores (PRS) for SA in 334,706 UK Biobank participants. Found 246 (63.07%) behaviour-related and 200 (10.41%) physiological factors significantly associated with SA. Mendelian randomization analyses supported a potential causal effect of liability to 58 factors on SA.

Metabolic disorders exhibit strong inflammatory underpinnings and vice versa. This study aimed to investigate the association between metabolic health status, genetic predisposition, and the risk of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)

Physical activity has proven effective in preventing atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. But its role in preventing degenerative valvular heart disease (VHD) remains uncertain. Study aimed to explore the dose-response association between moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) volume and the risk of degenerative VHD among middle-aged adults.

Iron plays a fundamental role in multiple brain disorders. The genetic underpinnings of brain iron and its implications for these disorders are still lacking. We find 36 genes linked to brain iron, with 29 not being previously reported. 16 of these genes can be replicated in an independent dataset with 3,039 subjects.

Study looked at the association between estimated 24-hour urinary sodium excretion and the occurrence of pancreatic cancer in the UK Biobank's large prospective cohort. Over a median follow-up period of 13.8 years, 1,765 cases of Pancreatic cancer were detected.

Few large studies have investigated predictors of increased motion in the first instance. Poorer values in most health traits predicted lower odds of complete imaging data. The largest association was for history of traumatic brain injury.

CKD increases the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and is more prevalent in older adults. Retinal age gap, a biomarker of aging based on fundus images, has been previously developed and validated. This study aimed to investigate the association of retina age gap with CKD and subsequent CVD complications.

Healthy lifestyles were assessed in two large-scale surveys in the US and UK. The prevalence of periodontal diseases was the primary outcome in both surveys. The presence of at least 2-3 healthy behaviours was associated with lower odds of overall and severe periodontitis.

Every 0.5-diopter increase in MSE was associated with a 6% higher risk of depressive disorders. Hyperopia participants at a higher risk than non-hyperopia participants. MVPA and sleep time significantly correlated with depressive disorders, with odds ratios of 0.79 and 1.14 (P)

Limited epidemiologic data has suggested direct associations between hair pigment, race, and incidence of alopecia areata (AA) Here, we examine the relationship between natural hair color, race and the lifetime risk of AA. We included UK Biobank patients of all races and self-reported hair color.

A total of 260,836 participants from the UK Biobank were included. LE8 scores were determined by 8 metrics (physical activity, diet, nicotine exposure, sleep, body mass index, blood pressure, blood glucose, and blood lipids) Cox proportional hazards models were used to calculate the risk of IBD.

Light at night disrupts circadian rhythms, and circadian disruption is a risk factor for type 2 diabetes. Whether personal light exposure predicts diabetes risk has not been demonstrated in a large prospective cohort. UK Biobank participants wore light sensors for one week, recording day and night light exposure. Circadian amplitude and phase were modeled from weekly light data.

There is growing interest in the intersection of frailty and heart failure (HF) Large-sample longitudinal studies in the general population are lacking. This prospective cohort study included 340,541 participants free of HF at baseline in the UK Biobank. Frailty status was associated with a higher risk of incident HF independent of genetic risk. A younger population may be more susceptible to HF when exposed to frailty.

We studied the association of very low serum Lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] concentrations with new-onset type 2 diabetes (T2D) and non-alcoholic liver disease (NAFLD) in the UK Biobank. Using an extended biomarker dataset, we identified 47,362 participants with very low Lp( a) concentrations.

Computational variant effect predictors offer a scalable and increasingly reliable means of interpreting human genetic variation. Concerns of circularity and bias have limited previous methods for evaluating and comparing predictors. Population-level cohorts of genotyped and phenotyped participants can facilitate an unbiased benchmarking of available methods.

White individuals experience a higher risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) while exhibiting a lower AF-related stroke risk compared to other ethnic groups. It is possible that these observations stem from phenomena unique to the United States. The United Kingdom provides socialized medicine, which ostensibly promotes equitable health care access.

Fecal metabolites effectively discriminate inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and show differential associations with diet. Metabolomics and AI-based models, including explainable AI (XAI), play crucial roles in understanding IBD.

Liver fat content increased the risk of non-alcohol liver cirrhosis, hepatocellular and Intrahepatic bile ducts and gallbladder cancers. Excess liver fat appears to be causally linked to liver Cirrhosis and cancers in a dose dependent manner.

The extent to which modifiable lifestyle factors offset the determined genetic risk of obesity and obesity-related morbidities remains unknown. The polygenic score for body mass index was calculated to quantify inherited susceptibility to obesity in 338,645 UK Biobank European participants. We observed significant interaction between high genetic risk and poor lifestyles.

The role of fasting plasma glucose (FPG), glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), and triglyceride-glucose index (TyG index) in predicting all-cause and cause-specific mortalities remains elusive. This study included 384,420 adults from the Shanghai cohort and the UK Biobank (UKB) cohort.

It is unclear whether lifestyle factors affect bone mineral density (BMD) during different inflammatory states. This study investigated the effects of coffee consumption, vitamin D (VD) intake, smoking, and alcohol consumption on heel BMD in adults. Coffee was negatively associated with adult heel B MD in low inflammatory states, while there was no association between coffee and adult heel bMD in high inflammatory state. Coffee may reverse the adverse effects of inflammation on BMD when the patient is in a highly inflammatory state, thus acting as a protective agent.

Pubertal timing varies considerably and is associated with later health outcomes. We identified several genes harboring rare loss-of-function variants in ~200,000 women. Shared signals with menopause timing at genes involved in DNA damage response suggest that the ovarian reserve might signal centrally to trigger puberty.

Oral health problems were self-reported at baseline. Symptoms of depression and anxiety were assessed using the Mental Health Questionnaire (PHQ-4) in a cross-sectional study. Periodontal disease was consistently associated with an increased risk of depression, anxiety and their comorbidity.

Stratified medicine holds great promise to tailor treatment to the needs of individual patients. While genetics holds great potential to aid patient stratification, it remains a major challenge to operationalize complex genetic risk factor profiles. Contemporary approaches to this problem rely on polygenic risk scores (PRS)

Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) poses a considerable health risk. This study aimed to explore the relationship between reticulocyte count and MASLD.

Ageing hallmarks, characterising features of cellular ageing, have a role in the pathophysiology of many age-related diseases. We examined whether obesity is associated with an increased risk of developing such hallmark- related diseases.

The Mediterranean-DASH Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay (MIND) diet is emerging as a promising candidate for preventive measures against inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) There is currently no direct evidence from population-based studies. This study aims to bridge the gap in understanding of the association of the MIND diet with IBD risk.

Floods have been the most common type of disaster and are expected to increase in frequency and intensity due to climate change. We collected data from 364 841 participants from the UK Biobank project. The risks associated with flooding exposure could last for several years, with the highest cumulative effect observed over 0-4 years.

Accurate measurement and classification of sleep/wake and sleep stages is important in clinical studies for sleep disorder diagnoses. We developed a self-supervised deep neural network for sleep stage classification using concurrent laboratory-based polysomnography and accelerometry. The sleep classifier was deployed in the UK Biobank with ~100,000 participants to study the association of sleep duration and sleep efficiency with all-cause mortality.

Study included 114,165 participants who completed at least two 24-h dietary recalls and were initially free of CVD from the UK Biobank. Incidence of total CVD, ischemic heart disease (IHD), atrial fibrillation (AF), heart failure (HF), and stroke were identified via electronic health records. Compared with participants with the lowest adherence to PHD, HRs for total Cvd, IHD, AF, HF, and stroke among those with the highest adherence were 0.79 and 0.88.

In a subset of females, postmenopausal status has been linked to accelerated aging. A complex interplay between reproductive-related factors, mental disorders, and genetics may influence brain function and accelerate the rate of aging.

UK Biobank participants reported on six life events that occurred within the past two years. Serious illness, injury, or assault to yourself, marital separation/divorce, and financial difficulties were associated with a higher risk of dementia. Death of a spouse/partner or close relative were mostly unrelated to dementia risk.

We included 262,368 women without prevalent T2DM from the UK biobank. Cox proportional hazards regression models were employed. During a mean follow-up of 12.2 years, 8,996 T2 DM cases were identified.

Studies have shown a link between myocardial infarction and shift work, but evidence is still lacking. We analysed data from the UK Biobank with >500 000 participants and an average 12-year follow-up duration. Night shift workers had a higher risk of myocardials infarctions compared to day workers.

MetaboAge and MetaboHealth are metabolomics-based biomarkers of biological age trained on chronological age and mortality risk. Lifestyle factors contribute to the extent chronological and biological age differ. associations between current smoking, sleeping &#8805;8 hours/day, higher BMI, and larger waist circumference were associated with higher MetaboAge.

BIA and dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) serves as common modalities for body composition assessment. This study aimed to evaluate the agreement between BIA and DXA measures in UK Biobank.

The association between dietary magnesium (Mg) intake and the risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) remains uncertain. We aimed to examine the associations of dietary Mg intake with therisk of ASCVD events and mortality in individuals with and without type 2 diabetes. There were significantly negative associations between sufficient dietary MG intake (equal to or greater than the recommended daily intake) and risk ofASCVD incidence.

Our retinal image-based deep learning (DL) cardiac biological age (BioAge) model could facilitate fast, accurate, noninvasive screening for cardiovascular disease (CVD) in novel community settings.

In most Proteome-Wide Association Studies (PWAS), variants near the protein-coding gene are used to predict protein levels. However, proteins can be regulated through variants outside of the cis region. An intermediate GWAS step to identify protein quantitative trait loci (pQTL) allows for the inclusion of trans SNPs in protein-level prediction models.

 Investigating the genetic underpinnings of human aging is essential for unraveling the etiology of and developing actionable therapies for chronic diseases. We characterize the genetic architecture of the biological age gap across nine human organ systems in 377,028 participants of European ancestry from the UK Biobank.

Stroke stands as a major global health issue, causing high death and disability rates. The effectiveness of existing stroke risk assessment methods is questionable due to inconsistent and varying biomarkers. This study introduces an automatic deep learning-based system for predicting stroke risk.

Mendelian randomization (MR) studies support an effect of self-reported insomnia, but not others, on glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) To explore potential effects, we used MR methods to assess effects of accelerometer-derived sleep traits. We found no causal effect of any accelerometers- derived sleep trait on HbA 1c or glucose.

Microdeletions on chromosome Xq23 disrupt the brain-expressed transient receptor potential (TRP) channel 5 (TRPC5) Male TRPC5 deletion carriers exhibited food seeking, obesity, anxiety, and autism. Women carrying TR PC5 deletions had severe postpartum depression.

Sarcopenia index (SI) based on serum creatinine and cystatin C. SI can predict clinical outcomes and discriminate between sarcopenia in a range of chronic and acute conditions. SI has not yet been tested in a large real-world general population dataset.

The phenotypic impact of compound heterozygous (CH) variation has not been investigated at the population scale. We phased rare variants (MAF &#8764;0.001%) in the UK Biobank (UKBB) exome-sequencing data to characterize recessive effects in 175,587 individuals. Genetic phase contributes to disease risk for gene-trait pairs: ATP2C2-COPD, FLG-asthma, and USH2A-visual impairment.

Stroke continues to be a leading cause of death and disability worldwide. Traditional stroke risk calculators are biased and imprecise. Novel stroke predictors need to be identified.

Cross-sectional study used data from the UK Biobank. Participants aged 40-69 years were recruited between the year 2006 and 2010. Annual average concentrations of NO X , NO 2 , PM 2.5 and PM 10 were estimated. Compared with the low group, the high group's APEX levels were associated with increased WMH volumes.

One-carbon metabolism coenzymes may influence brain aging in cognitively unimpaired adults. Increased B6 and B12 estimated intake linked with less functional connectivity in most networks, including the posterior portion of the Default Mode Network. Conversely, higher folate was related to more connectivity in similar networks.

Dysanapsis refers to a mismatch between airway tree caliber and lung size arising early in life. It is evident by early adulthood and associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) risk. We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of CT-assessed dysanapsi in 11,951 adults. Higher dysanapscis genetic risk score was associated with obstructive spirometry.

Metabolic abnormalities are implicated in the etiology of neurodegenerative diseases. Their role in the development of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) remains a subject of controversy. We aimed to identify the association between metabolic syndrome and the risk of ALS.

Gout is a nutrition-related, highly prevalent inflammatory arthritis with undesirable effects. The relationships between circulating fatty acids (FAs) and gout remain poorly understood. We included 268 174 participants with plasma FAs measured using nuclear magnetic resonance at the baseline (2006-2010) from the UK Biobank.

There is growing evidence that inflammation impairs erythrocyte structure and function. We assessed the impact of mild systemic inflammation on ery Throcyte fragility in three different settings. In mice challenged with a live attenuated bacterial strain to induce low-grade systemic inflammation, a significant increase in osmotic fragility was observed. Taken together, we conclude that mild systemic. inflammation increases ery throat fragility and may contribute to haemolysis.

High ultraprocessed food (UPF) consumption has been linked with increased mortality risk in the general population. But whether UPFs harm participants with a history of cancer remains unclear. This study aimed to evaluate the association of UPF consumption with mortality among participants.

Gout is associated with a significant burden of cardiovascular disease. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of a favorable lifestyle on incident cardiovascular events in patients with gout.

In this study, we aimed to compare imaging-based features of brain function with individual characteristics such as age, gender, and total intracranial volume. We developed a machine learning framework based on rsfMRI features in a dataset of 20,000 healthy individuals.

C-reactive protein/albumin ratio (CAR) seems to mirror disease severity and prognosis in several acute disorders particularly in elderly patients. Less is known about if CAR is superior to CRP in the general population. Cox regression analyses were conducted to assess all-cause and cardiovascular mortality.

MAFLD was associated with an increased risk of vascular dementia but a reduced risk of Alzheimer's disease. Differing risks emerged among MAFLD subtypes, with the diabetes subtype increasing risk of all-cause dementia.

VNTRs often appear unresolved ("dark") in variation databases due to their repetitive nature. One particularly complex and medically relevant VNTR is the KIV-2 VN TR located in the cardiovascular disease gene LPA which encompasses up to 70% of the coding sequence. We apply the approach to six protein-coding VNtrs in 2504 samples from the 1000 Genomes Project.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) has a substantial genetic component. Rare pLOF variants in 6 genes (TTN, RPL3L, PKP2, CTNNA3, KDM5B, and C10orf71) were associated with AF. Carriers with high PRS had a substantial 10-year risk of AF.

Coffee consumption is globally widespread and has become a lifestyle habit. This study investigated coffee consumption and liver-related survival in a large cohort of 455,870 individuals with UK biobank. Moderate coffee consumption was associated with lower all-cause mortality across the entire cohort.

Intelligence quotient is a vital index to evaluate the ability of an individual to think rationally, learn from experience and deal with the environment effectively. Few efforts have been paid to explore the potential associations of intelligence quotient traits with the tissue proteins from the brain, CSF and plasma.

Lumbar MRI findings may have stronger connections to LBP in specific subgroups of people. Genetically-predicted propensity to pain modifies the LDD-LBP association, with the strongest association present in people with the highest genetic propensity toPain.

Long-term exposure to high-level ambient PM 2.5 was associated with increased risks of brain disorders. The associations remain uncertain when the exposure is lower than current air quality standards in numerous countries. The brain-relevant epidemiological assessment suggests that each country should update the standard for ambient PM2.5 following the WHO Air Quality Guidelines 2021.

The electrocardiogram (ECG) can capture obesity-related cardiac changes. We trained an AI-ECG model to predict body mass index (BMI) from the ECG alone. The top tertile of delta-BMI showed increased risk of future cardiometabolic disease.

Both genetic and lifestyle factors contribute to myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, including ischaemic stroke (IS) and intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) We explored how and the extent to which a healthy lifestyle could counteract the genetic risk of those diseases, respectively.

We merge historical data on infant mortality rates to 370,000 individual records in the UK Biobank using information on local area and year of birth. We find no association between the polygenic index and heart disease in areas with the lowest infant mortality rate. But we find a strong positive relationship in areas characterized by high infant mortality.

There is a growing interest in using machine learning (ML) models to perform automatic diagnosis of psychiatric conditions. Generalising the prediction of ML models to completely independent data can lead to sharp decrease in performance. We assess the potential of multi-task learning (MTL) to improve accuracy by characterising multiple related conditions with a single model.

A cohort of 271,075 participants from the UK Biobank underwent analysis. Lifestyles were classified as unhealthy (0-1 score), general (2-3 score), and healthy (4-5 score) Air pollution was divided into three levels (high, moderate, and low) Cox proportional hazard regression analysis was performed to examine the links between lifestyle, air pollution, and all-cause mortality before and after adjustment for potential confounders.

The association of cardiovascular health levels, as measured by the Life's Essential 8 score, with cardiovascular disease (CVD) incidence and mortality among individuals with type 2 diabetes (T2D) has not been fully elucidated. This cohort study included 15,118 participants with T2D from the UK Biobank who were free of CVD and cancer at baseline. Compared to participants with low cardiovascular health, those with high cardiovascular health had a 52 %, 50 %, 47 %, 67 %, and 51 % lower risk.

There is a lack of comprehensive understanding of the temporal dynamics and neuroimaging biomarkers linked to accelerated (ABA) and resilient brain aging (RBA) This study addressed this gap by utilizing a large-scale UK Biobank (UKB) cohort.

Psoriatic disease (PsD) is closely associated with cardiovascular diseases. The Life's Essential 8 (LE8) score is a new metric for assessing cardiovascular health. A higher score indicates better CVH. However, the longitudinal association between LE8 score and the risk of PsD remains uncertain.

Interaction-LD score (i-LDSC) regression is an extension of the original LDSC framework that accounts for interactions between genetic variants. For each of the 25 traits analyzed in the UK Biobank and BioBank Japan, i-L DSC detects additional variation contributed by genetic interactions.

Inflammation has been linked to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) Most studies have focused on a single indicator, leading to inconsistent results. This study aimed to thoroughly investigate the potential associations between different systemic inflammatory indicators and NAFLD in the UK Biobank cohort.

This study explores the role that place of birth and place of residence have in variation in cognition in adulthood in the UK. We find, consistent with studies in the US, that place effects at both time points contribute modest variation.

Frailty is a common geriatric syndrome associated with reduced reserves and increased vulnerability to stressors among older adults. Vitamin D deficiency has been implicated in frailty, as it is essential for maintaining musculoskeletal functions. The relationship between dynamic changes in vitamin D levels and frailty over time has not been extensively studied.

Data of 356,894 participants without cancer at baseline in the UK Biobank were analyzed. Sleep score was evaluated using five sleep traits (sleep duration, chronotype, insomnia, snoring, and excessive daytime sleepiness) Circulating liver function biomarkers were measured. Cox proportional hazard model was performed to investigate the independent and joint associations of sleep and liver function.

There is limited evidence of the longitudinal associations between frailty, genetic predisposition to CKD, and the risk of CKD in the general population. This study aimed to examine such associations among participants in the UK Biobank. The study underscores the importance of frailty screening and intervention as a potential strategy to prevent CKD.

Social disconnection has been associated with poor cardiometabolic health. This study sought to investigate the associations of social isolation and loneliness with diabetic microvascular complications (DMC) among individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

The Multimorbidity-Adjusted Disability Score (MADS) integrates disease trajectory methodologies with advanced techniques for assessing interdependencies among concurrent diseases. This approach is designed to better assess the clinical burden of clusters of interrelated diseases and enhance our ability to anticipate disease progression.

The Merovingian period (5th to 8th cc AD) was a time of demographic, socioeconomic, cultural, and political realignment in Western Europe. Here, we report the whole-genome shotgun sequence data of 30 human skeletal remains from a coastal LateMerovingian site of Koksijde. We find two distinct ancestries, one shared with Early Medieval England and the Netherlands, while the other, minor component, reflecting likely continental Gaulish ancestry.

Recent evidence has linked childhood maltreatment with cardiovascular disease risk. This prospective analysis included 151,741 participants from the UK Biobank. Childhood maltreatment, including five types, was measured using the Childhood Trauma Screener (CTS) Incident arrhythmias were documented through linked hospital admission and death registry.

Study included 34,454 participants (53.4% females) aged 40-73 years from the UK Biobank. Brain volumes were measured using magnetic resonance imaging between 2014 and 2019. Strongest mediator for the association between greenspace buffered at 1000 m and total brain volume was smoking.

The incidence rate of infections was 29.3/1000 person-y in patients with T2D. Compared with those with 25(OH)D of 50.0-74.9 nmol/L, the multivariable-adjusted IRRs and 95% CIs of total infections, pneumonia, gastrointestinal infections, and sepsis were 1.44 and 1.41, respectively.

We identified a genetic subtype (C4) of type 2 diabetes (T2D) benefitting from intensive glycemia treatment in the ACCORD trial. We characterized the population of patients that met the C4 criteria in the UKBiobank cohort. C4 individuals were less likely to develop T2D, were slightly older and had lower HbA1c values.

Malnutrition, sarcopenia and frailty are distinct, albeit interrelated, conditions associated with adverse outcomes in adults with cancer. Whether they relate to multimorbidity, which affects up to 90% of people with cancer, is unknown. This study investigated the relationship between multimorbridity with malnutrition, sarc Openia and (pre-)frailty.

Run-of-homozygosity (ROH) segments, contiguous homozygous regions in a genome were traditionally linked to families and inbred populations. ROH-DICE identified over 1 million ROH diplotypes that span over 100 single nucleotide polymorphisms and are shared by more than 100 UK Biobank participants.

Residential greenness is defined as the area-weighted mean of greenness coverage based on the land used data from the Generalized Land Use Database for England (GLUD) 2005 in the UK Biobank. PM 10 partially mediated the relationship between greenness and allergic rhinitis incidence with a mediation effect of 26.9%.

The relationship between branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) and sarcopenia is incompletely understood. We conducted a community-based study involving > 100,000 United Kingdom adults. We assessed the potential role of muscle mass in mediating the relationship between BCAAs and muscle strength.

Smoking is a recognized risk factor for chronic kidney disease (CKD) The relationship between the time smoking is initiated after awakening each day and CKD remains largely unstudied. This study examined the association between this timing and the risk of CKD.

Polygenic scores (PGS) from genome-wide association studies are increasingly utilized. However, independent method evaluation is lacking, and method comparisons are often limited. Here, we evaluate polygenic scores derived via seven methods in five biobank studies. We found that no single method consistently outperformed all others.

VAT volume is associated with poorer brain health in midlife. This relationship is greatest in men and those at younger ages. Greater VAT was associated with lower TBV, GMV and THV.

There is growing evidence of an association between inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and psychiatric disorders. This study aimed to examine the association between IBD and the risk of incident psychiatric disorders and investigate whether and how blood biomarkers mediate this association.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) enable early prediction of disease risk. Evaluating PRS performance for binary traits commonly relies on the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) However, the widely used DeLong's method for comparative significance tests suffer from limitations, including computational time.

Few studies have evaluated the benefits of colorectal cancer (CRC) screening integrating both non-genetic and genetic risk factors. We applied the integrated model to calculate 10-year CRC risk for 430,908 participants in the UK Biobank.

Pilonidal sinus disease is a highly morbid condition characterized by the formation of chronic sinus tracts throughout the sacrococcygeal region. Despite its commonality and strong association with family history, there is no prior investigation of genetic risk factors for pilonidal Sinus disease.

Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) inhibitors, initially developed for treating hyperlipidemia, have shown promise in reducing the risk of new-onset diabetes. Given their oral administration, they could complement existing oral medications like sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) likely predict risk and prognosis of glaucoma. We compared the PRS performance for primary open-angle glau coma (POAG), defined using International Classification of Diseases (ICD) codes. We identified POAG cases in Mount Sinai BioMe and Mass General Brigham (MGB) biobank using ICD codes.

High frequency of playing computer games was associated with decreased risk of incident dementia. Individuals with high frequency of games had better performance in prospective memory. Genetically determined computer gaming was associated to a low risk of dementia. Computer gaming could modulate cognitive function and may be a promising target for dementia prevention.

Metabolic syndrome (MetS) has been linked to dementia. In this study, we examined the association of MetS with neuroimaging and cognition in dementia-free adults. MetS was associated with lower total brain, gray matter, and hippocampal volumes. Study participants with MetS performed poorer on cognitive tests.

Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) patients exhibit significantly lower levels of serum selenium (Se) compared to healthy controls. This study integrates a prospective cohort analysis and animal experiments to investigate Se deficiency as a potential risk factor for IBS.

Previous research has indicated a potential connection between psychological stress and how individuals perceive their own age. The current study explores the relationship between negative emotions and self-perceived age. After adjusted for covariates, participants with irritability, nervous feelings, worrier/anxious feelings or fed-up feelings are more likely to be rated as "about your age" or "older than you are"

Obese adults are often reported to have smaller brain volumes than their non-obese peers. Whether this represents evidence of accelerations in obesity-driven atrophy or is instead a legacy of developmental differences established earlier in the lifespan remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate whether early-life differences in adiposity explain differences in numerous adult brain traits commonly attributed to mid-life obesity.

Cardiovascular health (CVH) has been associated with cognitive decline and dementia. We investigated the association of CVH, assessed using Life's Essential 8 (LE8), with neuroimaging-based brain age and brain-predicted age difference (brain-PAD)

Study used data from four cohorts in the International Collaboration for a Life Course Approach to Reproductive Health and Chronic Disease Events. Histories of infertility, miscarriage, and stillbirth were self-reported. Compared to women without stillbirth, a history of recurrent stillbirths was associated with 64% higher risk of dementia.

Mfge8 is a major exosome (EV) protein known to mediate inflammation and atherosclerosis in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in animal studies. The pathophysiological role of this protein in obesity, T2DM, and cardiovascular disease is less investigated in humans. We found a rare Asian Indian population-specific missense variant (rs371227978; Arg148His) in the MFGE8 gene associated with increased circulating M fge8 and T2 DM. We also evaluated the exposure of Mfge 8-enriched human EVs in zebrafish (ZF) for their impact on cardiometabolic organ system.

Study conducted a prospective follow-up of 112,196 NAFLD participants diagnosed at baseline from the UK Biobank cohort study. Five sleep behaviors were collected to measure a healthy sleep score. Five genetic variants were used to construct a polygenic risk score.

Using data from the UK Biobank, we identified independent LEAP2 gene single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) We examined their associations with obesity traits and serum insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) concentration.

Frailty is a phenotype of decreased physiological reserves and diminished ability to respond to stressors. Epidemiological evidence connecting frailty to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and cirrhosis risks remain sparse. We aimed to assess the longitudinal associations of frailty with the risks of severe NAFLD and Cirrhosis in middle-aged to older adults.

The Graded Incomplete Letters Test (GILT) is an optimised psychophysical variation of a test used to diagnose cortical visual impairment. It measures thresholds for recognising letters under levels of increasing visual degradation (decreasing "completeness") in a similar fashion to ophthalmic tests.

The evidence about the associations of leukocyte telomere length (LTL) and intermediary cardiovascular phenotypes with adverse cardiovascular outcomes is inconclusive. This study assessed these relationships with cardiovascular imaging, electrocardiography, and the risks of sudden cardiac death (SCD), coronary events, and heart failure admission.

Previous preclinical evidence indicates a protective role of quercetin against inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) However, there is no evidence from human populations, resulting in knowledge gaps. We aimed to prospectively evaluate the associations between dietary quercETin intake and IBD in humans and  in vivo animal models.

Physical activity (PA) has been shown to reduce diabetes mortality, but largely based on imprecise self-reported data. We perform a prospective cohort study of 19,624 individuals with type 2 diabetes (T2D) from the UK Biobank with a median follow-up of 6.9 years. We observe L-shaped associations of longer duration of PA, regardless of PA intensity, with risks of all-cause and cancer mortality.

Polygenic scores (PGS) have emerged as the tool of choice for genomic prediction in a wide range of fields. We show that PGS performance varies broadly across contexts and biobanks. Contexts such as age, sex and income can impact PGS accuracy.

IL-6 is a crucial cytokine in inflammatory responses. Recent evidence has linked elevated IL-6 levels to changes in brain structure and cognitive decline. This study utilized a longitudinal cohort from the UK Biobank to analyze the correlation between IL- 6 expression levels, cognitive performance, and brain volumes.

Spirometry was conducted at baseline and a second visit after 5-7 years. The primary outcomes were annual changes in the per cent-predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 s.

Hospital-treated infectious diseases were associated with an increased risk of PD. The greatest PD risk was observed in neurological/eye infection. A dose-response relationship between infection burden and incident PD was revealed.

Study examined associations between residential environments and late-onset schizophrenia and its interaction with genetic risk factors in UK Biobank. Within 300 m buffer surrounding the residential addresses, per interquartile increase in greenspace (31.5%) and total natural environment (34.4%) were associated with an 11% lower risk of late-ONSet schizophrenia. Domestic garden and blue space did not show significant protective effects on late-ONS.

Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is a significantly underdiagnosed monogenic disorder. Improved detection could reduce the large number of cardiovascular events attributable to poor case finding. We aimed to assess whether machine learning algorithms outperform clinical diagnostic criteria and recommended screening criteria.

Hospital-treated infectious diseases were associated with a greater risk of T2D. Bacterial infection with sepsis had the strongest risk. The risk showed specificity according to types, sites, severity of infection and period since infection occurred.

Air pollutants are important exogenous stimulants to eye diseases. Long-term exposure to air pollutants was associated with an increased risk of POAG. Stratification analyses revealed stronger effects in Black people and the elderly.

We study the feasibility of combining privacy preserving synthetic data sets in place of the original data for collaborative learning on real-world health data from the UK Biobank. Data sharing can especially help parties whose data contain underrepresented groups to perform better-adjusted analysis for said groups.

Chronological age (CAge), biological age (BAge), and accelerated age (AAge) are all important for aging-related diseases. CAge is a known risk factor for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH); However, the evidence of association of BAge and AAge with BPH is limited. This study aimed to evaluate the association of CAge, Bage, and AA ge with B PH in a large prospective cohort.

Previous research has not investigated the persistent cutaneous immune-related adverse events (cirAEs) related to long COVID. This multinational study utilizes large national claims-based cohorts, using ICD-10 code diagnosis, focusing on patients aged &#8805;20 years from three countries: South Korean, Japanese, and the British cohorts. An increased risk of cirAEs was observed (HR, 1.10; 95% CI,. 1.06-1.14) in Korean cohort, while a similar association was observed in Japanese and UK cohorts.

Cognitive decline is among the most common non-motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease. The underlying genetic background was still less studied. We identified significant association between locus rs75819919 (DPP6) and accelerated cognitive decline.

We consider problems where many, somewhat redundant, hypotheses are tested and we are interested in reporting the most precise rejections. Assuring FDR control on the reported findings with these adaptive searches is, however, often impossible. To design a multiple comparison procedure that allows for an adaptive choice of resolution with FDR control, we leverage e-values and linear programming.

Study included 22 989 patients with type 2 diabetes from the UK Biobank. New-onset atrial fibrillation was ascertained from hospital admission records. During median of 12.3 years of follow-up, 844 all-cause dementia, 342 Alzheimer's disease and 246 vascular dementia cases occurred.

A healthy brain underpins cognitive and physical well-being, and mitigates cognitive decline, neurodegenerative diseases, and mental health disorders. We introduce a novel approach to forecasting a brain health index (BHI) by deploying three distinct models, each capitalizing on different modalities for training and testing.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are often underpowered due to small effect sizes. We propose redefining case-control outcomes into ordinal case-subthreshold-asymptomatic variables. Overall, the ordinal model improves statistical power in GWAS consistent with increasing the sample size by approximately 10%.

Synthetic surrogate (SynSurr) analysis makes GWAS on imputed phenotypes robust to imputation errors. Rather than replacing missing values, SynSurr jointly analyzes the original and imputed traits. We show thatsynSurr estimates the same genetic effect as standard GWAS.

Liver fibrosis, typically a silent condition, is antecedent to cirrhosis. The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that elevated Fibrosis-4 (FIB-4) index is associated with an increased risk of hemorrhagic stroke. Among 452,994 participants (mean age, 57 years; 54% women), approximately 2% had FIB- 4 index >2.67.

Unhealthy sleep behaviors are associated with higher risks of osteoporosis (OP), while prospective evidence is limited. This study aimed to quantify the attributable burden of OP incidence reduction due to unhealthy sleep behaviors.

Three trans-ancestry PRSs achieved moderately improved predictive performance in EAS compared to EUR populations. Among these models, PRS183 demonstrated the optimal discriminatory ability in both EAS and EUR validation datasets, particularly for individuals at risk of colorectal neoplasms.

Incretin-based therapies are highly successful in combatting obesity and type 2 diabetes. Yet both activation and inhibition of the glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide receptor (GIPR) in combination with glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) activation have resulted in similar clinical outcomes. This underlines the importance of a better understanding of the GIP system.

Study explores the independent and joint associations of accelerometer-measured physical activity and genetic predisposition with incident coronary artery disease. UK Biobank population-based cohort recruited over 500,000 individuals aged 40 to 69 between 2006 and 2010. During a median follow-up of 6.8 years, 1,382 cases of coronary arteries disease developed.

It's unclear if excess visceral adipose tissue (VAT) mass in individuals with prediabetes can be countered by adherence to a Mediterranean lifestyle (MEDLIFE) We aimed to examine VAT mass, MEDLIFE adherence, and their impact on type 2 diabetes (T2D) and diabetic microvascular complications (DMC)

Canine and human osteosarcoma are similar in clinical presentation and tumor genomics. We prioritized association testing of 5985 human SNPs mapping to candidate osteosArcoma risk regions detected in Irish wolfhounds. Fourteen SNPs were associated with human osteoarthritis risk after adjustment.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a major risk factor for heart failure (HF) and has elevated incidence among individuals with HF. Since genetics and HF can independently influence T2D, collider bias may occur when T2d (i.e., collider) is controlled for by design or analysis. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of diabetes-related HF with correction forCollider bias.

Polygenic scores (PGSs) offer the ability to predict genetic risk for complex diseases. To produce risk estimates relevant to clinical and public health decision-making, it is important to account for varying effects due to age and sex. We develop a novel framework to estimate country-, age-, and sex-specific estimates of cumulative incidence stratified by PGS for 18 high-burden diseases.

Most medicines with drug-gene interactions (DGIs) are prescribed in primary care. This study aimed to estimate the prevalence of potential and actionable DGIs. Antidepressants, weak opioids and statins were most commonly identified.

Fish oil has been considered to have an anti-inflammatory effect and has been proven to play a beneficial role in the incidence of numerous diseases. The association between fish oil supplementation and the risk of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is still unknown. This study aimed at evaluating the correlation between fishOil use and incident SLE in a large population-based prospective cohort.

Previous studies suggest a role for inflammation in hepatocarcinogenesis. No study has comprehensively evaluated associations between circulating inflammatory proteins and risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) We conducted a nested case-control study with 56 pairs of incident HCC cases and controls.

Mitochondrial dysfunction is a hallmark of liver diseases. The effects of functional variants such as protein truncating variants (PTVs) in MT-related genes have not been extensively explored. We extracted 60,928 PTVs across 2466MT-related nucleus genes.

The cognitive impairment patterns and the association with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in mental disorders remain poorly understood. We analyzed data from 486,297 UK Biobank participants, categorizing them by mental disorder history to identify the risk of AD and the cognitive impairment characteristics. Causation was further assessed using Mendelian randomization (MR). AD risk was higher in individuals with bipolar disorder (BD) and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)

People with type 1 diabetes (T1D) carry a markedly increased risk of stroke. We used whole-exome or whole-genome sequencing of 1,051 individuals with T1D. We identified a rare missense variant on SREBF1 significantly associated with stroke. Due to the rarity of the identified genetic variants, future replication is required.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) exists on a spectrum of disease represented by a combination of risk factors and pathogenic processes. An in silico score for CAD built using machine learning and clinical data in electronic health records captures disease progression, severity and underdiagnosis.

Hypothyroidism is a common endocrine disorder whose prevalence increases with age. The disease manifests itself when the thyroid gland fails to produce sufficient thyroid hormones. We used GWAS compilation from Open Targets and tuned protocols focusing on genes and coding regions. We propose that the integration of established association methods enhances interpretability and clinical utility.

Bayesian Linear Programming can efficiently convert any posterior distribution over signals into credible regions for signals. Applying BLiP to existing state-of-the-art analyses of UK Biobank data increased power by 30%-120% in just a few minutes of additional computation.

BMI shows heterogeneous body mass index (BMI) sensitivity. We performed stratification based on BMI to optimize predictions for BMI-related diseases. Polygenic risk scores from low-BMI discovery outperformed PRSs from high BMI. T2D predictions showed 37% improvements over unstratified-matched-population prediction.

Susceptibility to metabolic syndrome (MetS) is dependent on genetics, environment, and gene-by-environment interactions. We derived a continuous metric, the metabolic health score (MHS), based on standard clinical parameters. In human UK Biobank, the MHS associated with MetS status and was predictive of future disease incidence.

Small airways obstruction (SAO) has been associated with occupational exposures. We used data from UK Biobank participants with SAO. A greater mortality risk was associated with exposure to VGDF.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a complex disorder that has become a high prevalence global health problem. Autosomal genetic variation only explains some of the predisposition to kidney disease. Variations in the mitochondrial genome (mtDNA) and nuclear-encoded mitochondrial genes (NEMG) are implicated in susceptibility to CKD. We investigated the association of variation in both mtDNA and NEMG with CKD (and related traits)

Cross-sectional study of 201,466 European participants from UK Biobank. Found 42.8% of the association between genetic predisposition to obesity and phenotypic obesity was explained by lifestyle. Significant difference between men and women was found in central obesity.

Cohort studies linking greenspace exposure to a lower risk of obesity-related cancer (ORC) are scarce. Existing evidence on site-specific cancers has predominantly relied on non-specific greenspace measures. We examined associations of total greenspace, private residential gardens, and other greenspace types with the risk of being diagnosed with ORC.

Complicated associations between multiplexed environmental factors and aging are poorly understood. Air pollution presented a relatively large contribution in most cases. Particulate matter contributed the most to variance in aging. Noise and green space showed considerable contribution to brain volumes.

Low total kidney volume (TKV) is a risk factor for chronic kidney disease (CKD) However, evaluations of nonlinear relationships, incident events, causal inference, and prognostic utility beyond traditional biomarkers are lacking. TKV, height-adjusted TKv, and body surface area- adjusted TKVs of 34,595 White British ancestry participants were derived from the UK Biobank.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory disease affecting the central nervous system. Previous studies have indicated that albumin may exert influence on the inflammatory process and confer beneficial effects in neurodegenerative disorders. Here, we aimed to explore the link between albumin and the risk of MS.

Exome-wide analyses converged on RAB32 as a novel PD gene identifying c.213C > G/p.S71R as a high-risk variant. This variant was confirmed in all cases via Sanger sequencing and segregated with PD in three families. Functional analyses showed that RAB 32 S71R increases LRRK2 kinase activity, as indicated by increased autophosphorylation of L RRK2 S1292.

Frailty Index (FI) is a common measure of frailty, which has been advocated as a routine clinical test. The genetic and phenotypic relationships of FI with cardiovascular indicators (CIs) and behavioral characteristics (BCs) are unclear. The model developed by integrating easily collected CIs and BCs data in predicting FI has the potential to monitor disease risk.

Cross-sectional evidence suggests a possible link between frailty and atrial fibrillation (AF) Study aimed to determine whether the frailty phenotype is longitudinally associated with incident arrhythmias.

Head and neck cancer (HNC) incidence is on the rise, often diagnosed at late stage. Risk prediction tools have a potential role in prevention and early detection. Demographics and risk behaviors are strong predictors of HNC.

We analyzed data from UK biobank prospective study (n = 421,650, median 12.5 years follow-up) to examine disparities of mortality risk associated with air pollution. Fine particulate matter (PM 2.5 ), PM 10  and nitrogen dioxide (NO 2 ) were measured and assigned to each participants' address. In disadvantaged communities, air pollutants explained larger proportions of deaths and such disparities persisted over past decades.

Previous investigations into multiple sclerosis (MS) risk factors predominantly relied on retrospective studies. We aimed to evaluate the impact of genetic and early life factors on MS diagnosis by employing a time-to-event analysis in a prospective cohort. Tobacco smoking and infectious mononucleosis diagnosis were also considered.

Cystatin C (Cyst-C) concentrations were significantly and positively associated with the risks of kidney cancer, lung cancer, leukemia, mesothelial and soft tissue cancer, multiple myeloma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma and liver cancer. Only in men, higher Cyst- C concentrations (per SD increment) were associated with higher risks of head and neck cancer.

Study included 87,039 participants from the UK Biobank who had 7-day accelerometry data. Low rest-activity rhythm amplitude was associated with a higher risk of ASCVD.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the leading cause of death among adults worldwide. Accurate risk stratification can support optimal lifetime prevention. Current methods lack the ability to incorporate new information throughout the life course.

The human brain has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several complex diseases. genome-wide association studies have taken it a step further and revealed brain cell-type-specific functions for disease loci. Mendelian randomization studies usually include all instrumental variables from GWAS, which hampers the understanding of cell-specific causality.

Study included 407,027 participants from the UK Biobank. Sleep index of each participant was retrieved from seven sleep behaviors. Compared with participants in low. sleep quality group, those in medium and high sleep. quality group decreased 0.727 (95%CI, 0.653 to 0.801) and 1.056 (95%.CI, 1.494 to 1.592) years of PhenoAgeaccel, respectively. There was interaction between the genetic risk and sleep quality.

The current understandings of the relationship between air pollution (AP), greenspace exposure and Parkinson's Disease (PD) remain inconclusive. We engaged 441,462 participants from the UK Biobank who were not diagnosed with PD.

Low lung function is associated with an increased risk of age-related diseases. Relationship between AMD and low lung function remains unclear. We conducted a prospective cohort analysis of 409 230 UK Biobank participants with completed lung function after excluding individuals with AMD.

There are 90 independent genome-wide significant genetic risk variants for Parkinson's disease (PD) There are currently only five nominated loci for PD progression. The biology of PD progression is likely to be of central importance.

Glucosamine is a dietary supplement commonly used to support joint health. There has been interest in exploring other effects of glucosamine on health outcomes due to its ant-inflammation effect. This study compared the risks of major adverse liver outcomes (MALOs) between regular users and non-users.

Study involved 444,343 participants, with 4,458 cases of KSD identified during an average follow-up period of 12.6 years. Higher 25(OH)D levels were not associated with developing kidney stones in general population model 3 (HR = 0.88 [95% CI 0.77-1.01] Women over 60 years old were associated with a lower risk of kidney stone disease.

The contribution of gene-environment interactions (GxE) to complex trait variation can provide insights into disease mechanisms and explain sources of heritability. We introduce a method to estimate the proportion of trait variance explained by GxE and additive genetic effects across the genome. We show that our method is accurate in simulations and computationally efficient for biobank-scale datasets.

The World Health Organization recently released a novel metric for healthy aging: intrinsic capacity (IC) The relationship between IC and the incidence of dementia, and its subtypes, is unknown. This cohort study involved 366,406 participants from the UK Biobank between 2006 and 2010.

Alzheimer's disease is the largest contributor to dementia at the population level. We investigated whether a neurobiological model of DMN effective connectivity could predict a future dementia diagnosis at the single-participant level. Dysconnectivity predicted both future dementia incidence and time to diagnosis.

Heart failure (HF) risk is greater in rural versus urban regions in the United States (US) Whether this excess risk applies to countries with universal healthcare is unclear and the underlying biological mechanisms are unknown. In the prospective United Kingdom (UK) Biobank, we investigated urban-rural regional differences in HF risk.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is associated with an elevated risk of cognitive impairment and dementia. Understanding the cognitive sequelae and brain structural changes associated with AF is vital for addressing ensuing health care needs. We investigated neuropsychological and multimodal neuroimaging data of 1335 individuals with AF and 2683 matched controls.

The association of diet with atopic dermatitis (AD) remains poorly understood and could help explain heterogeneity in disease course. This cross-sectional study examined 24-hour urine sodium excretion, which was estimated using a single spot urine sample collected between March 31, 2006, and October 1, 2010. Multivariable logistic regression models adjusted for age, sex, race and ethnicity, Townsend Deprivation Index, and education were used.

Pulmonary function is associated with the development of chronic liver disease. Evidence of the association between pulmonary function and cirrhosis risk is still lacking. This study aimed to investigate the longitudinal associations of pulmonary function with the developing of cirrhotic disease.

Fracture prediction is essential in managing patients with osteoporosis. We aimed to identify the most relevant clinical fracture risk factors in contemporary populations. We used traditional and machine learning survival models to predict risks of vertebral, hip and any fractures.

Telomere length is a putative biomarker of aging and is associated with multiple age-related diseases. We identified 18 robust rare-variant genes for LTL, most of which estimated effects on LTL were significant. Three novel genes (ASXL1, CFAP58, and TET2) were identified.

High LE8 score was associated with reduced risk of MCI and dementia. It was also linked to brain MRI indices. LE8 combined age and sex had good performance for predicting all-cause dementia.

Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is currently the most common chronic liver disease worldwide. MASLD is strongly associated with metabolic comorbidities, including dyslipidemia. Isolated hypertriglyceridemia is the second strongest independent predictor of MASLD/MASH.

Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are responsible for a large proportion of premature deaths in low- and middle-income countries. Early CVD detection and intervention is critical in these populations. Many existing CVD risk scores require a physical examination or lab measurements, which can be challenging in such health systems due to limited accessibility. We investigated the potential to use photoplethysmography (PPG), a sensing technology available on most smartphones that can potentially enable large-scale screening at low cost.

Cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) has wide effects on metabolic, cardiovascular, pulmonary and neurological health. Despite the wide effects, challenges in the feasibility and reproducibility of CRF measurements have impeded its use for clinical decision-making. Here we link proteomic profiles to CRF in 14,145 individuals across four international cohorts.

Residential greenness is considered beneficial to human health. Its association with respiratory function has been found in previous studies. We conducted a prospective cohort study based on participants of the UK Biobank.

Long-term exposure to air pollutants during circadian syndrome was associated with subsequent CVD and death. CVD, particularly CHD, significantly mediated the associations of PM 2.5 , NO 2 , NO x and air pollution score with death.

Loneliness and social isolation are linked to higher risk of developing chronic kidney disease (CKD) American Heart Association has highlighted importance of considering social determinants of health in conjunction with traditional risk factors in patients with diabetes.

A total of 416 220 participants from the UK Biobank were included in this prospective cohort study. Fried phenotype was adopted to evaluate frailty, which included 5 aspects. More than 800 infectious diseases were identified based on electronic health records.

Evaluate sex differences in cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk prediction. Use of sex-specific risk thresholds should be considered in any re-evaluation of CVD risk calculators. At current risk thresholds, PCE and QRISK3 work less well for women than men but sensitivity was improved in women using a 5% 10-year risk threshold.

Dyslipoproteinemia often involves simultaneous derangements of multiple lipid traits. We aimed to evaluate the phenotypic and genetic characteristics of combined lipid disturbances in a general population-based cohort. Incident coronary artery disease risk was estimated for each subtype using Cox proportional hazards models.

Young women have a slower progressive loss of kidney function than age-matched men. Sex advantage diminishes after menopause, suggesting a role for female hormones in the development of kidney diseases.

The GSA-MiXeR analytical tool for gene set analysis (GSA) fits a model for the heritability of individual genes. It prioritizes gene sets with greater biological specificity compared to standard GSA approaches. Such biologically relevant gene sets are more likely to provide insights into the pathobiology of complex diseases.

Multiomics analyses have identified multiple potential biomarkers of the incidence and prevalence of complex diseases. However, it is not known which type of biomarker is optimal for clinical purposes. Here, we make a systematic comparison of 90 million genetic variants, 1453 proteins, and 325 metabolites from 500,000 individuals with complex diseases from the UK Biobank. Only five proteins per disease resulted in median (min-max) areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves for incidence.

Adhering to a Mediterranean Diet is generally considered an effective intervention in individuals at risk for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) Little is known about its effect with respect to the different specific manifestations of T2DM. We examined the association between the MED and the incidence of these microvascular complications in a prospective cohort of 33,441 participants.

Cannabis use status was assessed by questionnaire and categorized as heavy, moderate, low, and never. Data were analyzed from inception of study inclusion to December 2020. Among 121 895 participants, 2375 total deaths occurred, including 1411 deaths from CVD and 440 from cancer.

The mechanisms underlying alcohol-induced breast carcinogenesis are not fully understood but may involve hormonal changes. Cross-sectional associations were investigated between self-reported alcohol intake and serum or plasma concentrations of estradiol, estrone, progesterone, testosterone, androstenedione.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a debilitating autoimmune condition primarily affecting young adults. The link between diet and MS lacks substantial evidence due to limited large-scale studies. We exploited the UK Biobank resources to explore the nexus between diet, lifestyle, and MS risk.

Cancer risk models exist, but utility on a population level for risk stratification across cancer types has not been fully explored. We aimed to close this gap by evaluating pan-cancer risk models built on electronic health records across the Danish population with validation in the UK Biobank. The models were validated on cancer incidence between 2015 and 2018 across Denmark.

Study aims to assess CVD risk associated with the dietary contribution of food groups that consider both plant or animal origin and food processing categories. Data from the UK Biobank participants (40-69 y) who completed at least two 24-h dietary recalls between 2009 and 2012. Every 10 percentage points increase in plant-sourced non-UPF consumption was associated with a 7% lower risk of CVD.

Long-term exposure to air pollution is linked to increased incidence risks of atrial and ventricular arrhythmias. The associations of air pollutants with various arrhythmia subtypes were assessed. Females, older individuals, overweight or obese individuals, and those with low education attainment, low income, or cardiometabolic morbidities had higher HRs associated with pollutants.

The EAT-Lancet Commission in 2019 advocated a plant-centric diet for health and environmental benefits. The relation to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is unclear. We analyzed data from 105,752 UK Biobank participants with detailed dietary and metabolomic information.

Exposome-wide association study on neurodegenerative disease and neuropsychiatry disorders using data of participants from the UK Biobank. The significantly associated exposures fell into six primary exposome categories. The joint effects of identified risk factors demonstrated higher risks for common disorders of CNS.

Retirement significantly increases biological age for those induced to retire by the State Pension eligibility by 0.871-2.503 years, depending on sex and specific biological age measurement. This study provides novel empirical evidence contributing to the question of what social factors make people old.

Early-onset colorectal cancer (EOCRC) exhibits differential clinical, pathological, and molecular features. The potential differential effects of blood glucose on EOCRC compared to LOCRC have not been investigated. Study analyzed 374,568 participants from UK Biobank cohort and 172,809 participants from Kailuan cohort.

Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is a prevalent upper respiratory condition. Previous studies indicate a correlation between air pollution and CRS, but the role of genetic predisposition in this relationship remains largely unexplored. We hypothesized that higher air pollution exposure would lead to the development of CRS and that genetic susceptibility might modify this association.

Efficient data exchange and health care interoperability are impeded by medical records in nonstandardized or unstructured natural language format. Advanced language models, such as large language models (LLMs), may help overcome current challenges in information exchange.

Varying case definitions of COPD have heterogenous genetic risk profiles. Overlapping risk loci were found in/near the genes ZEB2, FAM136B, CHRNA3, and CHRNA4. Mediation analysis to estimate the effects of lead genotyped variants mediated by smoking found significant indirect effects.

Daily behavior patterns were significantly different in patients before CeVD. Although SB time was not associated with CeVD risk, MVPA time, both total min/d (HR), 0.998 [95% CI, 0.997-0.999] and guideline threshold adherence (#8805;150 min/wk) was associated with decreased risk. Comorbid burden had a significant partial mediation effect on the relationship.

Study looked at cardiovascular disease risks associated with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) MASLD is associated with increased CVD risk in IBD patients, with greater risk as number of CMRFs increased.

Aging triggers intricate physiological changes, particularly in whole-body fat-free mass (FFM) and handgrip strength. Cross-sectional analysis of the UK Biobank involved 45,984 individuals aged 40-70 years with a complete dataset. In older men and women, higher physical activity beneficially affect both FFM.

Study: Relationship between oxidative balance score (OBS) and IBD. Results: There is a significant negative correlation between OBS and the occurrence of IBD, ulcerative colitis (UC), and Crohn's disease (CD)

High salt intake may play a critical role in the etiology of psoriasis. Yet, evidence on the association of high salt intake with risk of Psoriasis is limited. We conducted a prospective cohort study of 433,788 participants from the UK Biobank. In the multivariable-adjusted model, a higher frequency of adding salt to foods was significantly associated with an increased risk of psOriasis.

Comorbid hypothyroidism (HT) exacerbates kidney, cardiac, neurological and other complications of T2D. The current HT standard of care (SOC) screening is infrequent, delaying HT diagnosis and treatment. We present a first-to-date machine learning algorithm (MLA) clinical decision tool to classify patients as low vs. high risk for developing HT.

Diabetic vascular complications share common pathophysiological mechanisms. Relationship between diabetes-related macrovascular complications (MacroVCs) and incident diabetic microvascular complication remains unclear. We aimed to investigate the impact of MacroVCs on the risk of microv vascular complications.

The relationship between rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and early onset atherosclerosis is well depicted. Glycoprotein acetyls (GlycA), a novel biomarker of inflammation, may play a role in the manifestation of these two inflammatory conditions. The present study examined a potential mediating role of GlycA within the RA-atherosclerosis relationship.

A 5 kg reduction in HGS was associated with increased risk for all-cause mortality. HGS could serve as a practical indicator of vascular health in patients with pre-diabetes and diabetes.

Genome-wide associations study (GWAS) was carried out to identify genetic variants that contribute specifically to social isolation behavior. 17 loci were identified at genome-wide significance, contributing to a 4% SNP-based heritability estimate. Linkage disequilibrium (LD) score correlation demonstrated genetic correlations with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), schizophrenia, major depressive disorder (MDD), educational attainment, extraversion, and loneliness.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) are rapidly emerging as a way to measure disease risk. Understanding the interplay of PRS with environmental factors is critical for interpreting and applying PRS. We develop an efficient method for simultaneously modeling gene-environment correlations and interactions using PRS in case control studies.

The association of coffee and tea consumption with osteoporosis is highly controversial. Few studies have focused on the combined effects of the two beverages. A prospective cohort study involving 487,594 participants aged 38-73 years from the UK Biobank was conducted.

Epilepsies are associated with differences in cortical thickness (TH) and surface area (SA) We investigated the extent to which these phenotypes share genetic influences. Despite absent genome-wide genetic correlations, there was a substantial genetic overlap between SA and genetic generalized epilepsy.

Hormonal and reproductive factors have been associated with upper gastrointestinal cancers in women but there is little available data on men. We included 219,425 men enrolled in the UK Biobank in 2006-2010. During 8 years of follow-up, 309 oesophageal 210 gastric cancers occurred. There was some evidence that male pattern baldness was associated with gastric cancer risk.

Baseline data from 19,327 individuals with type 2 diabetes in the UK Biobank were analysed. The mean age at baseline was 60.2 years, and median follow-up was 13.9 years. Diabetes duration was significantly longer among those with younger-onset diabetes.

By 2023, >900 new cases of each of 'wet' (neovascular) and 'dry' age-related macular degeneration, >1200 cases of primary open angle glaucoma and almost 15 000 cases of cataracts are expected to have accrued. These predicted incident case numbers generate good or substantial statistical power for a range of nested case-control studies of potential genetic, lifestyle and environmental determinants of disease.

Frontal fibrosing alopecia (FFA) is an increasingly prevalent form of follicular lichen planus, causing irreversible hair loss predominantly in postmenopausal individuals. CYP1B1, which is important for hormone metabolism, was implicated with the substitution of serine for asparagine at position 453 (c.1358A>G, p.Asn453Ser) exhibiting a protective effect against FFA.

The Lancet Commission identified 12 risk factors as priorities for prevention of dementia. APOE e4/e4 genotype and family history of Alzheimer's disease strongly associated with dementia outcomes. It is unclear how robust these relationships are across dementia subtypes and analytic scenarios.

Most polygenic score (PGS) approaches do not incorporate non-additive effects. Here, we present GenoBoost, a flexible PGS framework capable of considering both additive and non- additive effects, specifically focusing on genetic dominance. We reveal that Genoboost improves prediction for autoimmune diseases.

Early identification of people at risk of cancer-related malnutrition, low muscle mass (LMM) and sarcopenia is crucial to mitigate the impact of adverse outcomes. This study investigated risk factors associated with LMM, malnutrition and (probable-) sarc Openia in people with or without a history of cancer.

Study evaluated associations between glycaemic control, glycated haemaglobin (HbA1c) levels, and major depressive disorder (MDD) in individuals with type 2 diabetes. In 11,837 T2D cases (6.9 years median follow-up), pre-T2D MDD was associated with a 0.92 increase in HbA 1c (95% CI: [0.00, 1.84]). Poorer control was observed in MDD diagnosed post-T1D, highlighting the importance of depression screening.

The plasma proteome can mediate poor oral health problems (POHP)'s link to incident dementia. We screened 37,269 UK Biobank participants 50-74 years old (2006-2010) for prevalent POHP. We further tested against 1463 plasma proteins and incident dementia over up to 15 years of follow-up.

Study aimed to investigate effects of smoking, physical activity, alcohol consumption, diet and sleep duration on all-cause, cancer and non-cancer mortality of cancer survivors in UK biobank. During a median follow-up of 12.7 years, 5652 deaths were documented from 34,184 cancer survivors. Specific cancer types showed notable benefits from adherence to healthy lifestyle.

The relationships between ABO blood genotypes and dementia are modified by gender and APOE status. We used data from the UK Biobank, a population-based cohort study of 487,425 individuals.

Study looked at the interplay between genetics, educational attainment and coronary artery disease (CAD) risk. Found strong associations between the 'genetic education score' with 'modifiable' risk factors including smoking and BMI.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of psychiatric phenotypes have tended to focus on categorical diagnoses. To understand the biology of mental illness it may be more useful to study traits which cut across traditional boundaries. We report the results of a GWAS of mood instability as a trait in a large population cohort (UK Biobank, n = 363,705)

Study explores interaction between obesity and cortical morphometry in children, young adults, adults, and older adults. Findings reveal pattern of lower cortical thickness in fronto-temporal brain regions associated with obesity across all age cohorts.

Study looked at the link between polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) and cancers. None of the six PUFAs showed association with overall cancer risk or mortality. Only colorectal cancer showed evidence for a causal association for higher AA levels.

Study aimed to investigate the association of dietary diversity score (DDS), as reflected by five dietary categories, with biological age acceleration. After adjusting for multiple variables, DDS was inversely associated with KDMAccel. Meat and protein alternatives had a positive association.

Fibrotic diseases affect multiple organs and are associated with morbidity and mortality. We developed machine learning models to quantify T1 time, a marker of interstitial fibrosis, in the liver, pancreas, heart and kidney among 43,881 UK Biobank participants. Individuals with a high burden of fibrosis in &#8805;3 organs had a 3-fold increase in mortality compared to those with a low burden.

Age-related mosaic chromosomal alterations (mCAs) detected from genotyping of blood-derived DNA are structural somatic variants that indicate clonal hematopoiesis. Study aimed to investigate whether mCAs contribute to the risk of cirrhosis and modify the effect of a polygenic risk score.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a common arrhythmia with high morbidity and mortality implications. Several studies have described a paradoxical inverse relationship between serum cholesterol and the risk of AF. It remains unknown whether remnant cholesterol (RC) is associated with AF incidence.

Socioeconomic deprivation is associated with many illnesses including increased fracture incidence in older people. The effect of deprivation on total bone health status has not been well defined. We examined the relationship between socioeconomic deprivation and poor bone health and falls and we found a significant association.

It remains unknown how the patterns of change of social isolation and loneliness are associated with the onset of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and mortality. We aimed to investigate the longitudinal association of changes in social isolation. The study included 18,258 participants aged 38-73 years.

There are effective treatments to reduce hip fractures. Identification of patients at high risk of hip fracture is important to inform efficient intervention strategies. We developed a protein-based risk score in the Cardiovascular Health Study using an aptamer-based proteomic platform.

About 2.4% of the human mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genome exhibits common homoplasmic genetic variation. 45.1% of individuals from 1526 mother-offspring pairs harbor a mixed population of mtDNA (heteroplasmy)

In observational studies, instrumental variable (IV) methods are commonly applied when there are unmeasured covariates. In Mendelian randomization, constructing an allele score using many single nucleotide polymorphisms is often implemented. However, estimating biased causal effects by including some invalid IVs poses some risks.

Physical frailty and genetic factors are both risk factors for increased dementia. The joint effect remains unclear. This study aimed to investigated the long-term relationship between physical frailty, genetic risk, and dementia incidence.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is considerably heterogeneous in terms of comorbidities. We analyzed 77,519 participants and 6,266,189 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the UK Biobank database. At SNP-level, only the high-multimorbidity Cluster 6 revealed a genome-wide significant SNP.

The rise in asthma has been linked to different environmental and lifestyle factors including dietary habits. Whether dietary salt contributes to asthma incidence, remains controversial. We aimed to investigate the impact of higher salt intake on asthma incidence in humans and to evaluate underlying mechanisms.

Evidence has shown that women are frailer than men in all age groups and across different populations. Female-specific reproductive factors may be related to risk of frailty in women. Study involved 189 898 women from the UK Biobank.

This research aims to explore associations between the frequency of 13 food groups intake (or four diet groups) and infectious diseases. 487849 participants from the UK Biobank were enrolled, and 75209 participants were diagnosed with infectious disease. Consuming fish 2.0-2.9 times (  OR  = 0.8221; 95% CI: 0.7955-0.8496), cheese &#8805;5.0 times, fruit 3.0 -3.9 servings, and vegetables 2. 0-2,9 servings per week were associated with a lower risk of infection.

Long-term air pollution exposure is a major health concern, yet its associations with thyroid dysfunction (hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism) and biological aging remain unclear. A prospective cohort study was conducted on 432,340 participants with available data on air pollutants from the UK Biobank. All air pollutants were observed to be significantly associated with an increased risk of incident hypothy thyroidism. Individuals with higher pollutant levels and biologically older generally had a higher risk of thyroid dysfunction.

Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is an age-related inflammatory disease of unknown cause. We aimed to identify potentially modifiable risk factors and therapeutic targets for preventing or treating PMR. We meta-analysed genetic association data from 8,156 cases of PMR and 416,495 controls of European ancestry.

Small airways obstruction (SAO) is common in general populations. It has been associated with respiratory symptoms, cardiometabolic diseases, and progression to COPD over time. Whether SAO predicts mortality is largely unknown.

The genetic architecture of complex human traits and diseases is affected by large number of possibly interacting genes. detecting epistatic interactions can be challenging. Some studies have sought to avoid this problem by only testing interactions between SNPs with R-sq.

Soy amino acids, glutamate and aspartate, may lower androgens. No large randomized controlled trials testing their health effects exist. Glutamate was not associated with IHD, blood pressure, or diabetes after correction for multiple comparisons.

Study aimed to explore how single air pollutants and air pollution mixture could affect cognitive function and the incidence of dementia. Also to determine whether pulmonary function (PF) could play a mediating role in the relationship. Mixed air pollution may impact cognitive function, with PF potentially mediating this relationship.

BMI was higher among physically inactive and highly sedentary individuals. BMI difference was 38% lower among physically active individuals and those with low sedentary time. Study provides evidence that combined categories of PA and sedentary behaviors modify extent to which genetic predisposition to obesity results in higher BMI.

Polygenic Risk Scores (PRS) combine genotype information across many single-nucleotide polymorphisms. PRS might have a major impact on public health, possibly allowing for screening campaigns to identify high-genetic risk individuals for a given disease. The "Clumping+Thresholding" (C+T) approach is the most common method to derive PRS.

Genotype data include errors that may influence conclusions reached by downstream statistical analyses. We propose a genotype error model that considers both genotype errors and uncalled deletions. We applied our model to SNVs in 77 sequenced White British parent-offspring trios in the UK Biobank.

Green space is an emerging factor with promising prospects for bolstering human well-being. The incidence of delirium increases significantly with age and is fatal. To date, there is no research elucidating the enduring implications of green spaces on the occurrence ofDelirium. We explored the relationship between residential greenness and the incidence of Delirium in a large community sample.

The molecular pathology of stress-related disorders remains elusive. Genes and exons within the mPFC carried most disease signals replicated across two independent cohorts. Pathways pointed to immune function, neuronal and synaptic regulation, and stress hormones.

Long-term changes in frailty were associated with the risk of incident T2DM, irrespective of baseline frailty status. Preventing the worsening of frailty may reduce T2 DM risk.

Kidney cancer is a prevalent malignancy with an increasing incidence worldwide. Blood cell indices and inflammation-related markers have shown huge potential as biomarkers for predicting cancer incidences, but that is not clear in kidney cancer. Our study aims to investigate the correlations of blood cell indices with kidney cancer risk.

Ten-year risk equations for incident heart failure (HF) are available for the general population, but not for patients with established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) Study aimed to develop and validate 10-yearrisk equations for HF in patients with known ASCVD.

Obesity is associated with chronic low-grade inflammation, which is linked to cancer development. Abdominal obesity has unusually been associated inversely with cutaneous malignant melanoma. Leucocytes participate in inflammation and are higher in obesity, but prospective associations of leucocytes with CMM are unclear.

Glaucoma is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by the gradual degeneration of retinal ganglion cells. The advent of optical coherence tomography (OCT) has marked a transformative era in ophthalmology, offering detailed visualization of the macula and optic nerve head (ONH) regions.

Study analyzed data from 89,400 UK Biobank participants without Parkinson's disease. Participants were categorized into three groups: inactive, regularly active, and engaged in the weekend warrior (WW) pattern. Relationship between these exercise patterns and Parkinson's risk was assessed using a multifactorial Cox model.

Stroke increases the likelihood of social isolation and stroke survivors are at high risk of cognitive decline. We assessed the association between social engagement and cognitive function in a sample of stroke survivors.

The UK Biobank recruited over 500,000 British participants aged 40-69 in 2006-2010. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most common cause of death in the UKB cohort. We identified geographical variations in age-standardized rates of CAD between assessment centers.

Cross-sectional studies have demonstrated strong associations between physical frailty and depression. Here, we analyze data of 352,277 participants from UK Biobank with 12.25-year follow-up. Pre-frail and frail individuals account for 20.58% and 13.16% of depression cases.

Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) types are drivers of autoimmune disease, although with limited penetrance. Sarcopenia is characterized by chronic inflammation plus loss of muscle mass and strength. We tested whether autoimmune diagnoses are associated with sarcopenia in autoimmune disease-free older people.

Linkage-Disequilibrium Eigenvalue Regression for Gene-Environment interactions (LDER-GE) improves the accuracy of estimating the phenotypic variance component explained by genome-wide GE interactions. LDER-GE leverages the complete Linkage Disequilibrium (LD) matrix, as opposed to only the diagonal squared LD matrix utilized by LDSC.

M Mosaic loss of the Y chromosome (mLOY) in peripheral leukocytes is a somatic event in which a fraction of leukocyte have lost the entire Y chromosome. The frequency of mLOY increases with age and may reflect poor genomic maintenance as well as clonal imbalances in normal immune function. We investigated the relationship between mLOY and incident cancer in a large sample of 207,603 cancer-free men from the UK Biobank.

Sleep problems are prevalent but impact of sleep patterns on digestive diseases remains uncertain. 410,586 participants from UK Biobank with complete sleep information were included in the analysis. Compared to participants scoring 0-1, those scoring 5 showed a 28% reduced risk of any digestive disease.

Age-related hearing loss is the most common form of permanent hearing loss. It is associated with various health traits, including Alzheimer's disease, cognitive decline, and depression. Past genome-wide association studies identified multiple genomic loci involved in common adult-onset health traits.

Heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is among the most common genetic conditions worldwide that affects &#8776; 1 in 300 individuals. FH is characterized by increased levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and increased risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) FH variability in expression is incompletely explained by known risk factors.

Iron overload is observed in neurodegenerative diseases, especially Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Homozygotes for the iron-overload (haemochromatosis) causing HFE p.C282Y variant have increased risk of dementia and PD. We studied brain iron estimated by R2* and quantitative susceptibility mapping in 8 subcortical regions.

Time of year of birth affects the amount of daylight, nutrients, and viral load that an individual is exposed to within this key developmental period. Summer births were associated with probable recurrent Major Depressive Disorder.

Alcohol consumption has been associated with the occurrence of many health conditions. We analyzed UK Biobank data to explore associations of various conditions to type and amount of alcohol consumed. We observed increased condition prevalence with increasing amounts of alcohol. Beer consumers showed higher prevalence for most conditions.

Study aimed to identify candidate loci and genes related to sleep disturbances in depressed individuals. Sleep related traits included chronotype, insomnia, snoring and daytime dozing.GWAS detected 15 loci significantly associated with chronotype.

Cadence thresholds have been widely used to categorize physical activity intensity in health-related research. We examined the convergent validity of two cadence-based intensity classification approaches against a machine-learning-basedintensity schema in 84,315 participants.

Anti-M&#252;llerian hormone (AMH) is required for sexual differentiation in the fetus, and in adult females AMH is produced by growing ovarian follicles. AMH levels are correlated with ovarian reserve, declining towards menopause when the oocyte pool is exhausted. We carried out a genome-wide meta-analysis in 3344 pre-menopausal women from five cohorts.

Flavonoid intakes were estimated from &#8805;2 dietary assessments among 113,097 study participants. 2628 incident cases of T2D were identified during 12 years of follow-up. A higher FDS (compared to lower [Q4 vs. Q1] was associated with a 26% lower T 2D risk.

Large-scale cardiac magnetic resonance imaging data paired with genetic data provides a unique opportunity to assess the genetic contributions to left atrial structure and function. We use deep learning and surface reconstruction models to measure left. atrial minimum volume, maximum volume, stroke volume, and. emptying fraction in 40,558 UK Biobank participants.

Creatinine-cystatin C ratio (CCR) has been demonstrated as an objective marker of sarcopenia in clinical conditions. CCR has not been evaluated as an osteoporosis marker in individuals with normal renal function. We selected 271,831 participants withnormal renal function from UK Biobank cohort.

Stacked Neural Network Polygenic Risk Score (SNPRS) synthesises outputs from multiple neural network models. SNPRS captures a broader array of genetic variants enabling a more nuanced interpretation of the combined effects of these variants.

The COVID-19 pandemic exposed a global deficiency of systematic, data-driven guidance to identify high-risk individuals. Here, we illustrate the utility of routinely recorded medical history to predict the risk for 1883 diseases. We developed a neural network to learn from health records of 502,460 UK Biobank.

Study investigated associations between systemic medication use and diabetic retinopathy. Found significant associations between the use of short-acting insulins, medium-actingins and sulfonylureas with increased odds of incident DR. In contrast, fibrates and Cox-2 inhibitors were associated with decreased odds of DR.

Accurate estimation of population allele frequency (AF) is crucial for gene discovery and genetic diagnostics. determining AF for frameshift-inducing small insertions and deletions (indels) faces challenges. We developed CRAFTS-indels, an algorithm that combines AF of distinct indels within a given region and provides "regional AF"

Genetic biomarkers are very much needed for both research and treatment. To date, useful and valid biomarkers have been scant owing to the inaccessibility and complexity of human brain tissue. Genome-wide association studies of common diseases have matured over the last decade, generating the knowledge base for increasingly informative individual-level genetic risk prediction.

Anorexia nervosa (AN) occurs nine times more often in females than in males. AN displays high genetic correlations with anthropometric and metabolic traits. Given sex differences in body composition, we investigated the possible metabolic underpinnings of female propensity for AN.

Liver cirrhosis is the third most common cause of premature death in the UK. Iron overload is now increasingly associated with obesity, type-2 diabetes and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. This study shows that population studies including measurement of liver iron concentration are feasible.

Very low-depth sequencing has been proposed as a cost-effective approach to capture low-frequency and rare variation in complex trait association studies. We show that imputed 1× WGS recapitulates 95.2% of variants found by imputed GWAS with an average minor allele concordance of 97%.

Subjective well-being (SWB) is an important measure for mental health status. Previous research has shown that physical activity can affect an individual's well- Being. In this study, we aim to evaluate the potential interactions between mitochondrial genes and physical activity (PA)

We aggregated coding variant data for 81,412 type 2 diabetes cases and 370,832 controls of diverse ancestry. We identified 40 coding variant association signals.

We develop a Bayesian mixed linear model that estimates single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-based heritability. We apply the method to 28 complex traits in the UK Biobank data (N = 126,752) We show that on average, 6% of SNPs have nonzero effects, which in total explain 22% of phenotypic variance.

Study aimed to research the associations between accumulated social risks and sleep disorders. Research includes 239,165 individuals with sleep disorders and social determinants of health data from the UK Biobank cohort. Higher PsRS scores were associated with worse sleep status. Emotional stress and not in paid employment were found to have significant contributions for sleep disorder.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common illness accompanied by considerable morbidity, mortality, costs, and heightened risk of suicide. We conducted a genome-wide association meta-analysis based in 135,458 cases and 344,901 controls and identified 44 independent and significant loci.

Hypertension (HTN) and Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) often coexist, therefore understanding the relationship between both diseases is imperative to guide targeted prevention/therapy. This study aims to explore the relationship. between HTN and T2D using genome-wide association study (GWAS) analysis and biochemical data.

Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and histamine-2 receptor antagonists (H2RAs) are commonly used. PPIs have been shown to promote liver cancer in rats. Only one study has examined the association in humans.

Study included 23,129 participants with T2D at baseline from the UK Biobank. After 13.6 years of follow-up, a total of 1,123 severe NAFLD cases occurred. High levels of PM2.5, NO2, and NOX were associated with an elevated risk of severe NAflD. A lower LE8 score was negatively associated with the risk of NAFLd.

Lipid-lowering drugs and antihypertensive drugs are commonly combined for cardiovascular disease (CVD) The relationship of combined medications with CVD remains controversial. We aimed to explore the associations of genetically proxied medications of lipid- Lowering and Anti-Hypertensive Drugs with risk of CVD and other clinical outcomes.

Identifying the imaging method that best predicts all-cause mortality, cardiovascular adverse events and heart failure risk is crucial for tailoring optimal management. Potential prognostic markers include left ventricular myocardial mass, ejection fraction and stroke work. A new measurement called global longitudinal active strain density (GLASED) was also used.

Hepatic steatosis is an early histological subtype of both NAFLD and ALD. Excessive alcohol consumption is widely known to lead to hepatic Steatosis and subsequent liver damage. We simulated a target trial to estimate the effects of several hypothetical interventions, including changes in the amount of alcohol consumption or the types of alcoholic beverages consumed. The findings could inform decisions about alcohol-related policymaking and clinical care.

Previous observational studies have indicated associations of physical activity (PA) and air pollution with mortality. Still, the trade-off between the harmful effects of air pollution exposure and the protective effects of PA remains controversial and unclear. This study aimed to investigate the joint association of air. pollution and PA with mortality risks.

The difference in genetic regulation of gene expression between brain and blood is important for discovering genes for brain-related traits and disorders. Here, we estimate the correlation of genetic effects at the top-associated cis-expression or -DNA methylation (DNAm) quantitative trait loci. We identify 61 genes and 167 DNAm sites associated with four brain- related phenotypes.

We present a catalogue of human protein-coding variation, derived from exome sequencing of 983,578 individuals across diverse populations. 23% of the Regeneron Genetics Center Million Exome (RGC-ME) data come from individuals of African, East Asian, Indigenous American, Middle Eastern and South Asian ancestry. The catalogue includes more than 10.4 million missense and 1.1 million predicted loss-of-function (pLOF) variants.

Rare HTRA1 variants are linked to ischemic stroke in the UK Biobank and BioBank Japan. variants causing loss of protease function are associated with stroke, coronary artery disease and skeletal traits. A common variant modulating circulatingHTRA1 mRNA and protein levels enhances the risk of stroke. Findings identify two mechanisms as potential targets for therapeutic interventions.

 null mutations within the filaggrin ( FLG ) gene are established genetic risk factors for atopic dermatitis. Studies of FLG have typically used sequencing or bespoke genotyping. Large-scale population cohorts with genome-wide imputed data offer powerful genetic analysis opportunities.

Childhood trauma was known to increase risks of social isolation, loneliness and self-injurious thoughts and behaviors in adulthood. The aim of this study was to examine the protect and risk factors of social health, self- injurious thought and behaviors between adults with or without childhood trauma.

The association of sleep traits (insomnia, sleep duration, chronotype, daytime sleepiness, and snoring) with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is unclear. This research aimed to examine the effects ofSleep traits on BPH risk. A total of 170 241 men aged 38 to 73 years were included in the study.

Race-based equations may reclassify ventilatory impairment for 12.5 million persons, medical impairment ratings for 8.16 million, occupational eligibility for 2.28 million, grading of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and military disability compensation. Annual disability payments may increase by more than $1 billion among Black veterans.

Concerns have been raised about the increasing prevalence of both spontaneous and induced abortions worldwide. We aimed to examine the associations between abortion and all-cause and cause-specific premature mortality. Women aged 39 to 71 years with prior pregnancies were derived from the UK Biobank.

Psoriasis is an inflammatory skin disease with an estimated heritability of around 70%. Previous GWASs have detected several risk loci for psoriasis. This study included 925,649 individuals (22,659 cases and 902,990 controls)

Study enrolled UK Biobank participants between 2006 and 2010. Coffee intake of 2-3 cups/day (HR 0.973, 95% CI 0.949-0.998) or tea intake of 4-6 cups/ day (HR0.962) linked with lowest risk of incident cataract.

A total of 422 316 participants (mean age, 56 years; 54% women) were included for analyses. During a median follow-up of 11.9 years, there were 24 774 AF events documented. Participants in higher RC quartiles had a lower risk of incident AF.

A total of 330,716 participants from UK Biobank was included between 2006 and 2010. During a median follow-up period of 12.4 years, 37,897 death cases were recorded. The SHS was inversely associated with the risks of all-cause, CVD and cancer mortality in a dose-dependent manner (P for trend)

Insulin resistance (IR) significantly contributes to cardiovascular disease (CVD) development. Triglyceride glucose (TyG) index and triglyceride glucose-body mass index ( TyG-BMI) are recognised as convenient proxies for IR. However, their relationship with sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) remains unclear.

The relationship between non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and hypertension remains highly controversial. There are ongoing debates on whether NAFLD induces hypertension or vice versa. We employed cross-lagged panel models to investigate the temporal relationship between hepatic steatosis and blood pressure.

Hypertension increases the risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) such as stroke, heart attack, heart failure, and kidney disease. Previous studies have utilized statistical and machine learning techniques to develop hypertension prediction models. Only a few have included genetic liabilities and evaluated their predictive values.

Study included 20 634 UK Biobank participants free of CVD and cancer at baseline with two or more assessments of depressive symptoms during 2006-2016. Incident CVD, cancer and mortality were followed up until 2021 through linked registries. Six depressive symptoms trajectories were identified.

Stroke is a life-threatening condition that causes a major medical burden globally. Exposure to tobacco in early life, including smoking during adolescence and maternal smoking during pregnancy, can affect adolescent development and lead to several negative outcomes. The association between early-life tobacco exposure and stroke is not known.

There is limited evidence linking metabolic syndrome (MetS) with kidney cancer risk. This study aimed to investigate the association between MetS and its components and the risk of kidney cancer.

Lifestyle are closely related to migraine. There is a lack of studies investigating the association between Healthy lifestyle or Life's Essential 8 (LE8) and the risk of migraine. The objective of this research was to investigate the relationship between Healthy. lifestyle scores and Life's essential 8 scores, and migraine.

Telomeres form repeated DNA sequences at the ends of chromosomes, which shorten with each cell division. Factors modulating telomere attrition and the health consequences thereof are not fully understood. We leveraged data from 326,363 unrelated UK Biobank participants of European ancestry. Smoking cessation and high educational attainment associate with longer LTL.

More negative SER was nonlinearly associated with greater Euclidian (largely horizontal) OD-fovea distance. In myopia, these parameters varied more strongly with SER as myopia increased. These changes also suggest that the posterior pole stretches predominantly in the temporal horizontal direction.

The ERLIN1 p.Ile291Val single-nucleotide polymorphism (rs2862954) is associated with protection from steatotic liver disease (SLD) The protective effect of this variant was enhanced in patients with alcoholic liver disease. Strikingly, the protective effects of ERLin1. p.ile 291Val were not apparent in individuals carrying the TM6SF2 p.Glu167Lys variant.

 2021 European Society of Cardiology prevention guidelines recommend the use of (lifetime) risk prediction models to aid decisions regarding initiation of prevention. We aimed to update and systematically recalibrate the LIFEtime-perspective CardioVascular Disease (LIFE-CVD) model to four European risk regions.

Leveraging data from two prospective cohorts in China, we identified incident Omicron infections between January 2023 and April 2023. Participants with a self-reported history or self-rated symptoms of depression or anxiety were considered the exposed group, whereas the others were considered unexposed. No association was found between any pre-existing depression or Anxiety and the overall risk of infection.

About 60% of known trait-associated loci are in linkage disequilibrium with a cis-eQTL. For most traits, tissue-shared eQTLs underlie a greater proportion of trait associations. We propose new variant and gene associations for several complex traits.

Estimating linkage disequilibrium (LD) is essential for a wide range of summary statistics-based association methods for genome-wide association studies. Large genetic datasets enable more accurate and comprehensive LD estimates, but increase the computational burden of LD estimation. Here, we describe emeraLD, a computational tool that leverages sparsity and haplotype structure to estimate LD up to 2 orders of magnitude faster than current tools.

New-onset diabetes mellitus after transplantation (NODAT) is a complication following solid organ transplantation. We investigated whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within 158 immune- or inflammation-related genes contribute to NODAT in SOT recipients. Only SP110 rs2114592C>T remained associated with NODat in the STCS replication sample.

Intraocular pressure (IOP) is currently the sole modifiable risk factor for primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), one of the leading causes of blindness worldwide. Both IOP and POAG are highly heritable2. We identified 101 statistically independent genome-wide-significant SNPs for IOP, 85 of which have not been previously reported. Gene-based tests implicated an additional 22 genes associated with IOP.

The prevalence of the so-called diseases of affluence, such as type 2 diabetes or hypertension, has increased dramatically in the last two generations. The sudden increase in disease incidence suggests a major role for environmental risk factors. Obesity constitutes a case example of a modern trait shaped by contemporary environment.

It remains unclear how to meaningfully classify people living with multiple long-term conditions. This paper aims to identify clusters of MLTCs in different age groups and associated risks of adverse health outcomes and service use.

There is growing evidence supporting that vascular abnormalities contribute to multiple sclerosis (MS) We hypothesized that retinal vascular curve tortuosity is associated with MS, which this study aims to address.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) quantify an individual's genetic predisposition for different traits. A crucial challenge in clinical practice is the generalizability and transferability of PRS models to populations with different ancestries. The R2$$R^2$$ is a commonly used measure to evaluate prediction accuracy.

Inter-individual variation in blood pressure (BP) arises in part from sequence variants within enhancers modulating the expression of causal genes. We propose these genes, active in tissues relevant to BP physiology, can be identified from tissue-level epigenomic data and genotypes of BP-phenotyped individuals.

We aimed to develop a proteomic aging clock for all-cause mortality risk as a proxy of biological age. Data were from the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project, including 53,021 participants aged between 39 and 70 years.

Pancreatic cancer is the deadliest malignancy due to late diagnosis. Aberrant alterations in the blood proteome might serve as biomarkers to facilitate early detection of PC.

Previous studies have found that both physical inactivity and poor sleep are deleteriously associated with severe mental illness (SMI) The aim of current study was to investigate the joint association of physical activity (PA) and sleep with late-onset SMI (schizophrenia and bipolar disorder) risk.

Genome-wide association studies have predominantly focused on populations of European and Asian ancestry. This study presents the largest GWAS for urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR) in SSA individuals. Two genome-wide significant (P  -8 ) UACR-associated loci were identified.

We investigated associations of 1463 plasma proteins with incidence of 19 cancers and 9 cancer subsites in UK Biobank participants. We identify 618 protein-cancer associations, of which 107 persist for cases diagnosed more than seven years after blood draw. CD74 and TNFRSF1B with NHL, ADAM8 with leukemia, and SFTPA2 with lung cancer.

Mental health is influenced by inclination to sleep at specific times (chronotype) and actual sleep timing (behavior) Chronotype and timing of actual sleep are, however, often misaligned. Study aims to determine how chronotype, sleep timing, and the alignment between the two impact mental health.

Mendelian randomisation analyses of two prospective population-based cohorts. Evidence for a harmful effect of reducing BMI at low BMI levels was only present in some analyses, and where present, only below 20 kg/m 2. The association between genetically predicted BMI and mortality at high BMI level was stronger in women than in men.

Previous studies have explored the association of drinking with gout risk. We found that light alcohol consumption was linked to a slight decrease in gout incidence among female individuals. There was no significant association in male individuals.

The relationship between biological age acceleration (BAA) and cardiac size, cardiac function, and heart failure (HF) is not well-defined. A significant correlation was found between increased BAA and deleterious changes in cardiac structure. Mendelian randomization analysis suggests a likely causal link between BAA, vital cardiac metrics, and HF risk.

High prevalence of conversion from amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) to Alzheimer's disease (AD) makes early prevention of AD extremely critical. Neuroticism, a heritable personality trait associated with mental health, has been considered a risk factor for conversion from aMCI to AD. Whether the neuroticism genetic risk could predict the conversion of aMCi and its underlying neural mechanisms is unclear.

Step count is an intuitive measure of physical activity frequently quantified in health-related studies. However, accurate step counting is difficult in the free-living environment. This study aims to describe the development and validation of step count derived from a wrist-worn accelerometer and assess its association with cardiovascular and all-cause mortality.

Multi-copy 47S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) codes for rRNA components of the ribosome. Analysis in White British individuals reveals that rDNA CN associates with altered counts of specific blood cell subtypes, such as neutrophils.

Human aging is marked by the emergence of a tapestry of clonal expansions in dividing tissues. Clonal hematopoiesis (CH) often stems from somatic mutations in a set of established genes. However, the majority of clones lack known drivers. Here we infer gene-level positive selection in whole blood exomes from 200,618 individuals in UK Biobank.

Consumption of fibre, fruits and vegetables has been linked with lower colorectal cancer (CRC) risk. A genome-wide gene-environment (G × E) analysis was performed to test whether genetic variants modify these associations. We identified 2 loci associated with fibre and fruit intake that also modify the association of these dietary factors with CRC risk. Potential mechanisms include chronic inflammatory intestinal disorders, and gut function.

Currently, the relationship between household size and incident dementia, along with the underlying neurobiological mechanisms, remains unclear. This prospective cohort study was based on UK Biobank participants aged &#8805; 50 years without a history of dementia. Smaller household size was associated with an increased risk of all-cause dementia.

Being breastfed has established benefits for infant health, but its long-term effects on adult diseases, including cancer, remain underexplored. We examined associations between being breastfed in infancy and the risks of common cancers.

We mapped diagnosis (ICD code) data to standardized phecodes from 3 EHR-linked biobanks. We conducted 4 common analyses comparing unweighted and weighted results. For AOU and MGI, estimated phecode prevalences decreased after weighting. Weighting had a limited impact on dimensionality estimation.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are chronic disorders that have been suggested to share common pathophysiological processes. LRRK2 has been implicated as playing a role in both diseases. Exploring the genetic basis of the IBD-PD comorbidity through studying high-impact rare genetic variants can facilitate the identification of novel shared genetic factors.

Long-term exposure to ambient air pollution is closely related to the risk of mortality. It is still unknown whether lifestyle and genetic susceptibility could modify the association. This population-based prospective cohort study involved 461,112 participants from the UK Biobank. Each interquartile range (IQR) increase in PM 2.5 , NO 2  and NO x was associated with 7 %, 6 % and 5 % higher risk of all-cause mortality.

Kidney stone disease (KSD) has been associated with genetic risk factors. An association between physical activity and KSD risk also has been hypothesized. We conducted a comprehensive prospective cohort study utilizing participants from the UK Biobank to assess the intensity of PA using accelerometers.

A growing body of evidence suggests that the difference between predicted and chronological age-referred to as brain-predicted age difference (brain-PAD)-is related to various neurological and neuropsychiatric disease states. We tested the models on a separate dataset consisting of motion-free and motion-corrupted T1-weighted MRI scans from the same participants, the quality of which were rated by neuroradiologists.

Peripheral glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and neurofilament light chain (NfL) are sensitive markers of neuroinflammation and neuronal damage. Previous studies have shown that peripheral GFAP and NfL levels are elevated in the pre-clinical phase of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia.

Polygenic score (PGS) is a valuable method for assessing the estimated genetic liability to a given outcome or genetic variability contributing to a quantitative trait. While polygenic risk scores are widely used for complex traits, their application in uncovering shared genetic predisposition between phenotypes remains limited. We developed an R package, comorbidPGS, which facilitates a systematic evaluation of shared genetic effects among (cor)related phenotypes.

The relationship between sarcopenia and the long-term risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) remains unclear. This study recruited a large prospective Caucasian cohort from the UK Biobank. There were 24,007 cases of new-onset AF over a median follow up of 12.56 years.

The reason for higher incidence of atrial fibrillation (AF) in Europe compared with East Asia is unclear. We aimed to investigate the association between modifiable lifestyle factors and lifetime risk of AF in Europe and East Asia.

This article revisits the classical concept of network modularity. We establish asymptotic distributional results in the large-network limit for networks exhibiting nodal community structure. We provide confirmatory simulation studies and real data analysis pertaining to the network neuroscience study of psychosis, specifically schizophrenia.

Study examined the association between consumption of ultraprocessed foods and leucocyte telomere length (LTL) LTL exhibited a decrease of 0.005 (95% CI: -0.007, 0.002) with 1 UPF serving increase.

CCIs of each cancer were identified by NicheNet analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing data from breast, colon, liver, lung, and ovarian cancers. These CCIs were used to construct a shared multi-cellular tumor model (shared-MCTM) representing common CCIs across cancers. A gene signature was identified from the shared-M CTM and tested on the mRNA and protein level in two large independent cohorts.

Previous studies on the associations between serum urate levels and neurodegenerative outcomes have yielded inconclusive results, and the causality remains unclear. This prospective study included 382,182 participants (45.7% men) from the UK Biobank cohort. During a median follow-up period of 12 years, we documented 5,400 ADRD cases, 2,553 PD cases, and 1,531 neuro degenerative deaths.

Existing imaging genetics studies have been mostly limited in scope by using imaging-derived phenotypes defined by human experts. We propose a new approach, image-based genome-wide association study (iGWAS), for identifying genetic factors associated with phenotypes discovered from medical images. Using retinal fundus photos, our model extracts a 128-dimensional vector representing features of the retina as phenotypes.

Lung function measurements included forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) Study outcome was microvascular diseases, a composite outcome including chronic kidney diseases, retinopathy and peripheral neuropathy. FVC was inversely associated with the risk of new-onset microv vascular diseases in participants with diabetes.

Healthier lifestyle decreased the risk of mental disorders (MDs) such as depression and anxiety. Research on the effects of a comprehensive healthy lifestyle on their progression is lacking. 385,704 individuals without baseline MDs from the UK Biobank cohort were included.

Joint analysis of multiple correlated phenotypes for genome-wide association studies (GWAS) can identify pleiotropic loci. constructing a network based on associations between phenotypes and genotypes provides a new insight.

Personality traits, especially neuroticism, can influence susceptibility to dementia. Social contact mitigates stress and risk of dementia, but extent to which social contact can mitigate excess risk associated with neuroticism remains unclear. We aim to investigate whether active social contact is associated with lower neuroticism-associated excess risk.

Air pollution has been linked to multiple psychiatric disorders, but little is known on its long-term association with schizophrenia. The interaction between air pollution and genetic susceptibility on incident schizophrenia has never been reported. This population-based prospective cohort study included 437,802 middle-aged and elderly individuals free of schizophrenia at baseline.

The association between tea consumption and venous thromboembolism (VTE) remains unknown. A total of 190,189 participants with complete dietary information and free of VTE at baseline in the UK Biobank were included. During a median follow-up of 12.1 years, 4,485 (2.4%) participants developed incident VTE. Genetic variation in caffeine metabolism did not significantly modify the association.

Genetic susceptibility is involved in developing TKA-related SSI. Previously reported models for predicting SSI were constructed using nongenetic risk factors without incorporating genetic risk factors. We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) using the UK Biobank database. We identified 4 novel variants that were significantly associated with susceptibility to SSI following TKA.

Depressive disorders have increased in global prevalence, making improved management of these disorders a public health priority. Prior research has linked circadian clock genes to depression, either through direct interactions with mood-related pathways in the brain or by modulating the phase of circadian rhythms. Using machine learning and statistical techniques, we explored associations between 157,347 SNP variants from 51 circadian-related genes and depression scores.

Polygenic Risk Scores (PRS) based on results from genome-wide association studies offer the prospect of risk stratification for many common and complex diseases. We developed a PRS for alcohol-associated cirrhosis by comparing single-nucleotide polymorphisms among patients with ALC versus drinkers without ALC.

Few prospective studies have investigated the joint effect of lifestyle factors and genetic susceptibility on the risk of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) This study aims to evaluate the associations of lifestyle and genetic factors with incident IBS in the UK Biobank. An overall healthy lifestyle was defined using six modifiable lifestyle factors.

The independent effect of waist-to-height ratio (WHtR) and body fat percentage (BF%) on ischemic cardiovascular disease (CVD) remains uncertain. This study aimed to investigate the independent associations of WHtR and BF% withIschemic CVD.

Study aimed to explore the effect of genetically predicted lifelong lowering blood pressure (BP) through different antihypertensive medications on frailty. Among 298,618 UK Biobank participants, one-sample MR analysis observed that genetically proxied BB use (0.76; 95% CI, 0.65-0.90; p = 0.001) and CCB use was significantly associated with lower risk of pre-frailty.

Dyslipidaemias is the leading risk factor of several major cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) There is still a lack of sufficient evidence supporting a causal role of lipoprotein subspecies in CVDs. In this study, we comprehensively investigated several lipoproteins and their subspecies, as well as other metabolites.

Clonal hematopoiesis (CH) is a phenomenon of clonal expansion of stem cells. It is driven by somatic mutations affecting certain genes. CH has been linked to the development of hematologic malignancies, cardiovascular diseases, and other conditions.

Study aimed to examine the longitudinal associations of CA with incident all-cause dementia. Each additional CA was associated with a 15.5% (95% CI: 8.8%-22.5%) higher risk of dementia.

Insufficient and deficient vitamin D may be associated with chronic musculoskeletal pain. Study findings are conflicting, and few account for important confounding factors. Data collected at the baseline assessments of 349,221 UK Biobank participants.

Standard methods of heart chamber volume estimation in cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) typically utilize simple geometric formulae based on a limited number of slices. We aimed to evaluate whether an automated deep learning neural network prediction of 3D anatomy of all four chambers would show stronger associations with cardiovascular risk factors and disease.

Study included 360,271 individuals in UK Biobank. After a median follow-up of 12.52 years, we found higher total physical activity (TPA) level and higher sleep scores were related to reduced risk of cancer.

Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is an important cause of cardiovascular mortality. The authors aimed to explore the associations between sleep patterns and genetic susceptibility to AAA. They included 344,855 UK Biobank study participants free of AAA at baseline.

22,496 participants with T2D from the UK Biobank were included. SO was defined as the combination of obesity (body mass index &#8805;30 kg/m 2 ) and sarcopenia (grip strength) 1946 (8.7%) participants developed HF during a median follow-up of 12.0 years.

Toxoplasma gondii is an opportunistic pathogen affecting about 1/3 of world population. While often asymptomatic, it can lead to severe toxoplasmosis in immunocompromised patients. We found a significant association between the SAG1 seropositivity at baseline and the incidence of schizophrenia.

Excessive dietary sodium intake has known adverse effects on intravascular fluid volume and systemic blood pressure. This study aimed to assess the association of urinary sodium excretion, a biomarker of dietary intake, with glaucoma.

The eye is a well-established model of brain structure and function. Yet region-specific structural correlations between the retina and the brain remain underexplored. We aimed to explore relationships between retinal layer thicknesses and brain magnetic resonance image (MRI)-derived phenotypes in UK Biobank.

Study looked at associations of accelerometer-measured intensity-specific physical activity with mortality risk among population with cardiometabolic disease. Participants were recruited from the United Kingdom (UK) across 22 assessment centers from 2006 to 2010.

What distinguishes vulnerability and resilience to posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) remains unclear. Levering traumatic experiences reporting, genetic data, and electronic health records (EHR), we investigated and predicted the clinical comorbidities (co-phenome) of PTSD vulnerability and resilient in the UK Biobank and All of Us Research Program.

Mantis-ML 2.0 is a framework integrating AstraZeneca's Biological Insights Knowledge Graph and numerous tabular datasets. We use graph neural networks, capturing the graph's holistic structure, and train them on hundreds of balanced datasets. The enhanced models demonstrate a 6.9% average classification power boost.

There is limited evidence suggesting that osteoporosis might exacerbate depressive symptoms. More studies demonstrate that depression negatively affects bone density and increases fracture risk. We found that genetically predicted MDD was associated with a higher risk of fracture and  vice versa. The shared genetic components (such as SGIP1 ) between the diseases could be a potential therapeutic strategy for both MDD and bone loss.

The leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor 6 (LGR6) was recently identified as the cognate receptor for the proresolving mediator maresin 1 (MaR1) We investigated the functional impact of a genetic variant in the gene encoding for LGR6, which is predicted to lead to a frameshift mutation in one of the receptor isoforms, on both receptor expression and immune cell responses.

Researchers have endeavored to address this issue by pursuing the harmonization of MRIs. Most existing image-based harmonization methods for MRI are tailored for 2D slices. We aim to resolve inconsistencies between slices by introducing a pseudo-warping field. This field is created randomly and utilized to transform a slice into an artificially warped subsequent slice.

Evidence suggests Toxoplasma gondii is associated with a variety of neuropsychiatric and behavioral conditions. This research aims to explore the potential correlation between T. Gondii antibody positivity and neuroPsychiatric disorders through a comprehensive prospective cohort study. The study sample consisted mostly of white British individuals aged 40 to 69.

Liver fibrosis was associated with an increased risk of hospitalization or death from heart failure. Genetic polymorphisms associated with liver fibrosis were not positively associated with elevated heart failure risk.

The impact of early-life tobacco exposure on dementia has remained unknown. Early-life smoking accelerated dementia onset and was genetically correlated to AD. MSDP and smoking in adolescence altered many brain regions, including the hippocampus.

Comorbid anxiety occurs often in MS and is associated with disability progression. Polygenic scores offer a possible means of anxiety risk prediction but often have not been validated outside the original discovery population. We aimed to investigate the association between the Generalized Anxiety Disorder 2-item scale polygenic score with anxiety in MS.

The relationship between 24-hour rest-activity rhythms (RARs) and risk for dementia or mild cognitive impairment (MCI) remains an area of growing interest. More studies are required to fully explore the link between disrupted RARs and dementia or MCI in middle-aged and older adults.

Flood data were retrieved from the Dartmouth Flood Observatory and linked with health data from 499,487 UK Biobank participants. Risk of all-cause mortality increased by 6.7% for every unit increase in flood index after confounders had been controlled for. Participants with higher levels of education and household income had a higher estimated risk of death from most causes.

We used data from UK Biobank, The Tr&#248;ndelag Health Study (HUNT), and Michigan Genomics Initiative (MGI) One genome-wide significant (P &#8804; 5E-08) locus was associated with the susceptibility to upper UTI, located near TSN in the female-only analysis.

Study looked at 163 748 UK Biobank participants in England with linked primary care EHRs. 29% of the sample self-reported having insomnia symptoms, while only 6% had a Read code for insomnia symptoms in their primary care records.

Polygenic scores (PGS) enable the prediction of genetic predisposition for a wide range of traits and diseases. Present approaches for calculating PGS from genotypes are often inefficient and labor-intensive, limiting transferability into clinical applications. We present 'Imputation Server PGS', an extension of the Michigan Imputation server designed to automate a standardized calculation of polygenic scores.

Glucagon and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) are derived from the same precursor; proglucagon. Dual agonists of their receptors are currently being explored for the treatment of obesity and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) Elevated levels of endogenous glucagon (hyperglucagonaemia) have been linked with hyperglycaemia in individuals with type 2 diabetes.

Existing risk assessment tools are mostly limited to a single outcome of interest. This study tests the feasibility of producing multiple disease risk estimates with at least 70% discrimination.

The non-genetic factors predisposing to trigger finger (TF) have mostly been characterised in small studies from individual institutions. We identified 2250 individuals with medical and surgical diagnostic codes for TF, and 398,495 controls. TF was found to be significantly associated with age (OR 1.04, 95% CI 1.03-1.04) and female sex.

Within-person (non-directional) variability had a SNP-based heritability of 2-5% for height, sitting height, body mass index (BMI) and weight. A variant tracking the Alzheimer's risk APOE-E4.4 allele (rs429358) was significantly associated with weight loss. Findings help elucidate the genetic influence on trait-change within an individual and highlight disease risks.

Study examined how plasma proteome indicators may explain the link between poor cardiovascular health (CVH) and dementia risk. Study involved 28,974 UK Biobank participants aged 50-74y at baseline (2006-2010) who were followed-up for dementia.

A higher prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors has previously been shown to be associated with adverse social determinants of health (SDoH) We investigated associations of apoA1, apoB, and apolipoprotein A1 with the level of education and household income and their joint impact on CAD mortality in participants of the UK Biobank.

Is childhood adversity associated with biological aging, and if so, does sex modify the association, and do lifestyle and mental health mediate the association? A lifespan analysis is conducted using data on 142 872 participants from the UK Biobank. Childhood adversity is assessed through the online mental health questionnaire.

Walking pace is associated with risks of major chronic diseases including cancer, cardiovascular disease (CVD) and diabetes mellitus type 2 (T2DM) in the general population. Brisk walking pace was linked to reduced risks of these diseases in individuals with hypertension, partially mediated by low-grade inflammation.

Steroid sulphatase (STS) cleaves sulphate groups from steroid hormones. In animals, STS inhibition or deletion of the associated gene, enhances memory/neuroprotection and alters hippocampal neurochemistry. Little is known about the consequences of constitutive STS deficiency on memory-related processes in humans.

It remains unclear whether there are associations between sunlight exposure and brain structural markers. Stratification analyses were performed based on sex, age, and diseases (hypertension, stroke, diabetes) Prolonged natural sunlight exposure was associated with the volumes of total brain.

Age at first sexual intercourse (AFS) and lifetime number of sexual partners (NSP) may influence the pathogenesis of uterine leiomyoma (UL) through their associations with hormonal concentrations and uterine infections. Four specific genomic regions were identified as contributing significant local genetic correlations to AFS and UL, including one genomic region further identified for NSP and UL.

ShaPRS is a method that leverages pleiotropy between traits or shared genetic effects across ancestries. The method uses genome-wide summary statistics from two diseases or ancestries to improve the genetic effect estimate and standard error.

Despite growing evidence that apolipoprotein B (apoB) is the most accurate marker of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk, its adoption in clinical practice has been low. This investigation sought to determine whether low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), non-high-density Lipo-C, and triglycerides are sufficient for routine cardiovascular care. A sample of 293 876 UK Biobank adults (age: 40-73 years, 42% men) was included.

Diffusion tensor image analysis along the perivascular space (DTI-ALPS) has been suggested as a method to index the health of the glymphatic system. In small-scale studies the index has been shown to correlate with age, cognitive health, and sleep, and is higher in females than males.

Some studies have suggested an association between metabolic syndrome and kidney stones. Whether some individual characteristics and clustering of metabolic syndrome traits increase the risk of kidney stones has not been examined in a large-scale prospective cohort.

Genome-wide association study on head size identified 67 genetic loci. 17 variants affect specific brain areas, but most have widespread effects. Gene set enrichment is observed for various cancers and signaling pathways.

Trinucleotide repeats in the androgen receptor have been proposed to influence testosterone signaling in men, but the clinical relevance of these trin nucleotide repeats remains controversial. We quantified CAG and GGC repeat lengths in the AR gene of European-ancestry male participants in UK Biobank. Both repeat lengths were shown to be positively associated with circulating total testosterone level and bone mineral density.

Early-life tobacco exposure serves as a non-negligible risk factor for aging-related diseases. Compared with those without in utero exposure, participants with in. utero tobacco exposure had an increase in Klemera-Doubal biological age (KDM-BA) and PhenoAge acceleration of 0.26 and 0.49 years, respectively, but a decrease in telomere length of 5.34% among 276,259 participants.

Circulating metabolites are potential candidates for biomarker and therapeutic target identification. Genetically increased &#937;-3 unsaturated fatty acids abundance, as well as genetically decreased &##8-catalyzed N-acetyl-amino acids, and hypotaurine were negatively associated with the risk of bipolar disorder.

Eosinophils exhibit anti-tumor cytotoxic responses in the tumor microenvironment. They may contribute to tumor immunosurveillance. We analyzed data from 443,542 adults aged 38-73 in the UK Biobank.

The data of 307,023 participants recruited between 2006 and 2010 were extracted from the UK Biobank study. Healthy diet scores were calculated based on self-reported dietary data at baseline. Over a median 6.2-year follow-up, 3,276 participants developed CRC. The mediating effect of adiposity on CRC risk was significant in men but not in women.

Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)-based plasma fatty acids are objective biomarkers of many diseases. We explored the associations of NMR-based Plasma fatty acids with the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and chronic liver disease (CLD) mortality in 252,398 UK Biobank participants.

Elevated estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) based on creatinine and cystatin C associated with risk of cardiovascular diseases. 372,060 participants free of CVD and CKD in the UK Biobank were included. Thresholds for high eGFR varied with age and sex.

To investigate the associations of physical activity (PA), low-level air pollution, and interaction on cardiovascular diseases (CVD) incidence based on the UK Biobank. PA was measured by the International Physical Activity Questionnaire and five air pollutants were estimated using Land Use Regression. All association estimates were based on Cox regression.

Lifestyles are associated with all-cause mortality, yet limited research has explored the association in the elderly population with multimorbidity. This prospective study included 29,451 and 173,503 older adults aged 60 and over from Chinese Longitudinal Healthy Longevity Survey and UK Biobank. For participants with two or more conditions, adopting a healthy lifestyle was associated with a 27%-41% and 22%-42% reduction in mortality risk.

COVID-19 vaccination (at least one dose) was associated with reduced short-term risks of hospitalizations from stroke, heart failure, non-CO VID-19 pneumonia, and dementia. The results for two-dose vaccination were similar. Taken together, this study provides further support to the safety and benefits of COVID- 19 vaccination.

Study aimed to quantify the relationship between the incidence of OSA and sleep patterns and genetic susceptibility. 355,133 white British participants enrolled in the UK Biobank between 2006 and 2010 with follow-up data until September 2021 were recruited.

Age-related cognitive decline is accelerated by vascular risk factors for cerebral small vessel disease. We used data from the UK Biobank to assess cognitive tests (executive function, processing speed, and memory) We found a significant sex-by-time interaction over a 5-year period. High low-density lipoprotein, low education, and high blood pressure had a greater effect on the rate of cognitive decline in the executive function for females.

Red blood cell distribution width (RDW) to albumin concentration (RAR) has emerged as a reliable prognostic marker for mortality in patients with various diseases. Whether RAR is associated with mortality in the general population remains unknown. This population-based prospective cohort study used data from participants in the 1998-2018 US National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) and from the UK Biobank.

Elevated lipoprotein (a) is associated with premature atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Fewer than 0.5% of individuals undergo Lp(a) testing, limiting the evaluation and use of novel targeted therapeutics currently under development. We describe the development of a machine learning model for targeted screening.

Cross-sectional analysis used ordinary least squares regression within the UK Biobank database. 26 820 participants aged 53-86 years, categorised into two cohorts: Cohort 1 and Cohort 2. Cognitive performance scores were evaluated against sleep parameters and health and lifestyle factors.

The role of plant-based diets, particularly their quality, is poorly known. The consumption of healthy plant foods was associated with lower frailty risk. The hPDI was directly, and the uPDI inversely, associated with higher risk of low physical activity and weak hand grip.

Study sought to examine whether younger onset age of OSA is associated with a higher risk of incident dementia. Study excluded 445,023 participants due to baseline dementia diagnoses, incomplete covariate information, or pre-OSA onset dementia.

Study aimed to explore relationships between orofacial pain and sleep using the UK Biobank dataset. Participants experiencing pain all over the body showed a significant association with an unhealthy sleep pattern (OR = 1.18, P)

Ankle-foot sprains are the most common musculoskeletal injuries, which can impair balance and theoretically increase the risk of falls. There is a lack of evidence supporting the direct association between ankle-foot Sprains and the future risk of fall.

APOC3, ANGPTL3, and ANGPTl4 are circulating proteins that are actively pursued as pharmacological targets to treat dyslipidaemia and reduce the risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Here, we used human genetic data to compare the predicted therapeutic and adverse effects of these proteins. Genetically lowering circulating AngPTL4 levels reduced the odds of coronary artery disease (CAD) and Type 2 diabetes.

 Depression is heritable, differs by sex, and has environmental risk factors such as cigarette smoking. The effect of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on depression through cigarette smoking and the role of sex is unclear. We used counterfactual-based mediation analysis to test the indirect or mediated effect of SNPs on broad depression through the log of pack-years of cigarette smoking, adjusting for age, sex, current smoking status, and genetic ancestry (via principal components) In the UK Biobank, we found SNPs in two genes [ LOC105378800 ,  GRM5 ] with an indirect effect.

Study aimed to examine the association between past/current sleep duration and macro-/micro-structural brain outcomes. 40 436 dementia-free participants (age 40-70 years) underwent a baseline assessment followed by a brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan 9 years later. Past (baseline) and current (MRI scans) sleep duration (hours/day) were recorded.

Automated segmentation is a challenging task in medical image analysis. Most current supervised learning based algorithms suffer from insufficient manual annotations. We propose a hybrid framework to learn polygon vertices, region masks, and their boundaries in a weakly/semi-supervised manner.

This study analyzed the intima-media thickness(cIMT)indicators obtained through ultrasound examination in patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus(T2DM)and their relationship with age. The study established a significant connection between cIMT and both grip strength and walking speed.

Biobanks typically rely on volunteer-based sampling. This results in large samples (power) at the cost of representativeness (bias) The problem of volunteer bias is debated. We show that volunteering biases associations in UK Biobank (UKB) and estimate inverse probability (IP) weights that correct for volunteer bias in UKB.

We report the largest genome-wide association study (GWAS) on nine serum amino acids in the UK Biobank participants (117 944, European descent) We identified 34 genomic loci for circulatory levels of alanine. Every standard deviation increase in valine is associated with 35% higher risk of type 2 diabetes.

The aim of this article is to propose a novel method for estimating trans-ancestry genetic correlations in genome-wide association studies. These correlations describe how genetic architecture of complex traits varies among populations. Our new estimator corrects for biases arising from prediction errors in high-dimensional weak GWAS signals.

Regular use of fish oil supplements had different roles in the transitions from healthy status to atrial fibrillation, to major adverse cardiovascular events, and then to death. For people without cardiovascular disease, hazard ratios were 1.13 (95% confidence interval 1.10 to 1.17) and 1.05 (1.00 to1.11) for transition to stroke.

Aging is often associated with cognitive decline. Understanding neural factors that distinguish adults in midlife with superior cognitive abilities (Positive-Agers) may offer insight into how the aging brain achieves resilience. Optimal Labeling with Bayesian Optimization (OLBO) algorithm used an unsupervised approach.

In a recent publication, we applied a novel model to address phenotypic heterogeneity in genetic research on alcohol misuse. We stratified individuals based on their patterns of alcohol use behaviours and comorbid psychopathology. In this Commentary, we provide further descriptions of the subtypes of alcohol misuse that emerged from the empirical mixture modelling approach.

Inflammatory bowel disease is a common digestive disorder and diabetes can lead to intestinal dysfunction. Patients with inflammatory bowel disease in combination with diabetes present a higher rate of hospitalization and consumption of medical resources. We studied 313,008 participants from the UK Biobank, including 5891 patients with type 2 diabetes.

We aimed to unravel the mechanisms connecting adiposity to type 2 diabetes. We used MR-Clust to cluster independent genetic variants associated with body fat percentage (388 variants) and BMI (540 variants) We identified five clusters of adiposity-increasing alleles associated with higher type 2 Diabetes risk. We then characterized each cluster based on various biomarkers, metabolites and MRI-based measures of fat distribution.

Brain age gap (BAG) is a potential biomarker of brain health. BAG was significantly increased in Alzheimer&#8242;s disease, anxiety disorders, bipolar disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder.

Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the leading cause of mortality worldwide. Cardiac image and mesh are two primary modalities to present the shape and structure of the heart. To obtain efficient and explainable biomarkers for CVD prediction and diagnosis, it is needed to jointly consider both.

Electronic health records (EHRs) permit large cohorts to be followed across the lifespan and include a wide range of diagnostic information. We studied relationships between schizophrenia, mania/bipolar disorder, depression, anxiety and subsequent risk of dementia.

The relationship between socioeconomic status (SES) inequity and incident age-related macular degeneration (AMD) remains unclear. We aim to investigate whether low SES increases the risk of AMD and to explore the effect of a healthy lifestyle on this association. This prospective cohort study included 316,663 UK Biobank individuals.

There is a lack of comprehensive data regarding the association of depression and anxiety for the subsequent risk of thyroid disease. Depression and anxiety were measured through self-reported Patient Health Questionnaire-4 (PHQ-4) at baseline. thyroid disease was diagnosed by corresponding hospital data documented through International Classification of Diseases (ICD)-10 codes.

The existing diagnostic methods for Alzheimer's disease (AD) require considerable time and expense from patients. We propose a mobile device-targeted AD diagnosis network, which uses retinal fundus images. The proposed model adopts MobileNetV3-Large as a backbone for efficient computation.

 miR-137 is a microRNA involved in brain development, regulating neurogenesis and neuronal maturation. Genome-wide association studies have implicated mi R-137 in schizophrenia risk but do not explain its involvement in brain function and underlying biology. Polygenic risk for schizophrenia mediated by miR -137 targets is associated with working memory, although other evidence points to emotion processing.

MS-GWAS associations are significantly enriched in regulatory regions of microglia and peripheral immune cell subtypes. Cell-specific polygenic risk scores were developed to examine the cumulative impact of the susceptibility genes on MS risk and clinical phenotypes.

Growth hormone insensitivity (GHI) encompasses growth restriction, normal/elevated growth hormone (GH), and low insulin-like growth factor I (IGF1) "Nonclassical" GHI is poorly characterized and is rarely caused by heterozygous dominant-negative (DN) variants located in the intracellular or transmembrane domains of the GH receptor. We sought to determine the molecular mechanisms underpinning the growth restriction in 2 GHI cases.

Lifestyle modification is an effective measure for diabetes prevention in people with prediabetes, but its associations with the long-term risks of cardiovascular disease (CVD), cancer, and mortality remain largely uncertain. We aimed to investigate the associations of combined healthy lifestyle factors with these health outcomes among participants withprediabetes. We documented a total of 18 333 incident diabetes, 10 829 incident CVD, 6926 incident cancer and 9877 deaths.

The iron overload condition hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) can cause liver cirrhosis and cancer, diabetes, and arthritis. Males homozygous for the p.C282Y missense mutation in the Homeostatin Iron Regulator (HFE) gene have greatest risk. Only a minority develop these conditions.

Mendelian randomization (MR) study investigated the causal effect of metabolically different adiposity subtypes on osteoarthritis. Greater metabolically unfavorable and metabolically neutral adiposity were associated with higher odds of the disease. The nonlinear MR analyses suggested a nonlinear relationship between metabolically favorable adiposity and osteoartritis.

Population-based prospective cohort study used data from the UK Biobank for 2013 to 2015. Participants were adults 40 to 79 years old in England, Scotland, and Wales. More daily steps were associated with a lower risk of all-cause, CVD, and cancer mortality. Peak-30 cadence was consistently associated with lower risks across all outcomes, beyond the benefit of total daily steps.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is prevalent worldwide. NAFLD is associated with elevated serum triglycerides (TG), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL), and reduced high-density cholesterol (HDL) We identified credible genes in these pathways and characterized missense variants in these for effects on serum traits.

Lichen planus (LP) is known to affect the skin, skin appendages and mucosae. We examined conditions associated with LP in two unrelated cohorts. Dermatological and digestive disorders were overrepresented in LP individuals.

Eczema is a chronic inflammatory skin disease. Hard water is formed when minerals are dissolved in water from filtration through sedimentary rocks. Several studies have reported a higher prevalence of eczema in areas with hard water. But this association has not been explored in adults.

Vitamin D deficiency or insufficiency is particularly common in people with type 2 diabetes (T2D) Study included 15,103 individuals with T2D who were initially free of CVD. 65.7% of participants had a vitamin D concentration below 50 nmol/L.

Asthma is a heterogeneous common respiratory disease that remains poorly understood. The established genetic associations fail to explain the high estimated heritability. Robust association analyses incorporating different genetic ancestries and whole-genome sequencing data may identify novel genetic associations.

 Pharmacogenetic variants impact dihydropyridine calcium-channel blockers (dCCBs; e.g., amlodipine) treatment efficacy. Evidence on clinical outcomes in routine primary care is limited. We aimed to estimate associations between reported pharmacogenetic. variants and incident adverse events in a community-based cohort prescribed dCCB.

COVID-19 vaccination has been associated with increased venous thromboembolism (VTE) risk. It is unknown whether genetic predisposition to VTE is associated with an increased risk of thrombosis following vaccination.

Step-based recommendations may be appropriate for dementia-prevention guidelines. However, the association of step count and intensity with dementia incidence is unknown. UK Biobank prospective population-based cohort study with 6.9 years of follow-up.

The risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in ambulatory COVID-19 is controversial. This population-based cohort study included participants with SARS-CoV-2 infection that was confirmed by a positive polymerase chain test reaction result. Older age, male sex, and obesity were clinical risk factors for post-CO VID-19 VTE. factor V Leiden thrombophilia was additionally associated with double the risk, comparable with the risk of 10-year aging.

High-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and low- density lipop protein cholesterol (LDL-L) were examined. HDL-C/LDl-C ratio of 0.4-0.6 was correlated with lower MI risk, all-cause mortality, haemorrhagic stroke and ischaemic stroke.

Modern tractography algorithms are based on segmentation maps of white matter (WM), gray matter (GM), and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) These maps are generally estimated from a T1-weighted (T1w) image and then registered in diffusion weighted images (DWI) space. Diffusion-based segmentation would, thus, potentially allow not to have higher quality anatomical priors injected in the tractography process.

Air pollutants are considered as non-negligible risk factors of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) However, the relationship between long-term air pollution and the incidence of IPF is unknown. Our objective was to explore the associations of air pollutants with IPF risk and further assess the modification effect of genetic susceptibility.

Increasing evidence suggests that sleep is important for fat metabolism. This study investigated the linear and nonlinear causal association between sleep duration and VAT. For each 1-hour increase in genetically predicted sleep duration, the reduction in predicted VAT mass was 0.11 kg (P = 8.18E-16)

Common variants of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene, homozygous in approximately 3% of the world's population, are associated with Alzheimer's disease, atherosclerosis and anti-tumour immunity. Mice bearing the APOE2 or APOE4 variant exhibited rapid disease progression and poor survival outcomes relative to mice bearing the most prevalent APOE3 allele.

Few studies have compared approaches within the same dataset. We used baseline data from 495,465 participants (age 38-73 years) to characterise MLTC. The prevalence of MLTC was 44% (BC), 33% (CC), 6% (BI) and 2% (CI)

Using data from 26 239 UK Biobank participants free from dementia and stroke, we assessed the associations of metabolic subgroups. Participants characterized by high triglycerides and liver enzymes showed the most adverse brain outcomes compared to the healthy reference subgroup with high-density lipoprotein cholesterol.

There is little direct evidence for their associations with preclinical changes in brain structure. We investigated the association of genetic dementia risk and healthy lifestyle with brain morphometry. We used data from up to 25,894 UK Biobank participants.

Study looked at the association of polygenic risk score (PRS) and bladder cancer (BC) risk and whether this PRS can be offset by a healthy lifestyle. Overall, a negative interaction was observed between the PRS and the HLS (P = 0.02). A 7% higher and 28% lower BC risk per 1-standard deviation (SD) increment in PRS.

High levels of cystatin C, urate, and microalbuminuria were found significantly associated with severe COVID-19. Findings might point to new directions for clinicians and policymakers in optimizing risk-stratification among patients.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have successfully identified many genetic variants and risk loci for complex traits and common diseases. However, these identified variants, in general, can explain only a small to moderate proportion of the heritability. We propose a new and orthogonal approach by integrating individual-level omics data with GWASs. We applied the method to the UK Biobank subcohort of n = 90,000 individuals with both GWAS and metabolomics data.

Quadile integral linear model (QUAIL) used to estimate genetic effects on trait variability. QUAIL identified 11 vQTLs for body mass index (BMI) that have not been previously reported. Findings showed substantial enrichment for interactions with physical activities and sedentary behavior.

Canada's Food Guide (CFG) was profoundly revised in 2019. The extent to which adherence to recommendations on healthy food choices reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) is unknown. The aim of this study was to examine how greater adherence to the 2019 CFG's recommendations onhealthy food choices influences the risk.

Regular use of paracetamol, but not ibuprofen, was associated with a significantly higher risk of incident T2DM among middle aged UK adults.

Cortical morphology changes with ageing and age-related neurodegenerative diseases. Previous studies suggest that the age effect is more pronounced in the frontal lobe. However, our knowledge of structural complexity changes in male and female brains is still limited.

17q12 microdeletion and microduplication syndromes present as overlapping, multisystem disorders. We assessed the disease phenotypes of individuals with 17q12 CNV in a population-based cohort. Microdeletions were strongly associated with diabetes (p=2×10 -7 ) but microduPLications were not.

Some adults, aged 80 years or older, are "super-agers" that exhibit cognitive performance like younger adults. It is unknown if there are adults in mid-life with similar superior cognitive performance ("positive-aging") versus cognitive decline over time.

National Institute for Health and Care Excellence 2021 guidelines on chronic kidney disease (CKD) recommend the use of the Kidney Failure Risk Equation (KFRE) The equation to calculate estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) has also been updated.

MOSTest is well powered to discover genomic effects distributed across multiple phenotypes. Applied to cortical brain MRI morphology measures, MOSTest has resulted in a drastic improvement in power to discover loci when compared to established approaches.

The relation of vitamin D status with the risk of chronic kidney diseases (CKD) remains uncertain. We aimed to examine the association of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) with new-onset CKD in participants with and without diabetes.

The associations of native T1 with incident events were evaluated in 42,308 UK Biobank participants over 3.17 +/- 1.53 years of prospective follow-up. Higher myocardial T1 was associated with greater odds of a range of prevalent conditions (eg, any CVD, brain disease, heart failure, nonischemic cardiomyopathies, AF, stroke, and diabetes) The strongest relationships were with heart failure (OR: 1.41 [95% CI:1.26-1.57]; P = 1.60 × 10 -9)

Long-term exposure to air pollution was associated with risks of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and cirrhosis among the UK population. PM 2.5, PM 10, NO 2 and NO x exposures contributed to the excess risk of NAFLD associated with air pollution score. Alcohol consumption was an effect modifier for the association.

The low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) controls cellular delivery of cholesterol and clears LDL from the bloodstream, protecting against atherosclerotic heart disease. We sought to identify regulators of the LDLR beyond the targets of current therapies and known causes of familial hypercholesterolemia. Cold shock domain-containing protein E1 (CSDE1) enhanced hepatic  LDLR messenger RNA (mRNA) decay via its 3' untranslated region.

Previous studies have suggested a potential association between sleep and telomere length (TL), but its genetic basis remains unclear. In the UK Biobank cohort, the association between TL and insomnia was observed in the female samples. There was no evidence for causal association between insomnia and TL in individuals of European ancestry.

Fatigue is common following aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (aSAH) Little is known about its frequency, prognosis and impact on employment. The aim of this study was to assess the frequency of fatigue and its relationship to employment in the long term.

It is well established that decreased kidney function can increase blood pressure (BP), but it is unproven whether moderately elevated BP causes chronic kidney disease (CKD) or glomerular hyperfiltration. 311 119 White British UK Biobank participants were included in logistic regression analyses to estimate the odds of CKD.

We perform GWAS of 16 metabolites clustered at the intersection of amino acid catabolism, glycolysis, and ketone body metabolism in a subset of UK Biobank. Among the 213 lead GWAS hits, we find a strong enrichment for genes encoding pathway-relevant enzymes and transporters. These outlier variants often reflect biology local to the traits.

The relationship between fish oil supplementation and incident dementia in a large population-based cohort study has not yet well studied. A total of 211,094 community-dwelling older persons over 60 years from the UK Biobank cohorts enrolled between 2006 and 2010 that reported regularly taking fish oil and had no dementia at baseline.

NPC is closely associated with genetic factors and Epstein-Barr virus infection. Individuals with a family history suffer elevated NPC risk. This study provides the potential for risk stratification of individuals with an NPC family history.

Population-based studies have suggested an increased risk of acute arterial events (AAEs) in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) We aimed to assess the risk of incident AAEs and premature A AEs, adjusted for diet, physical activity, and inflammation biomarkers, in participants with IBD.

Accelerated aging makes adults more vulnerable to chronic diseases and death. Whether childhood adversity is associated with accelerated aging processes, and to what extent lifestyle mediates the association, remain unknown. A retrospective cohort analysis was conducted using data from adult participants in the UK Biobank baseline survey (2006-2010) and online mental health survey (2016)

Study analyzed data from the UK Biobank Mental Health Survey from January 1 to June 1, 2021. In the discovery data set, 162 variables (66%) were associated with psychotic experiences. Of these, 148 (91%) were replicated. The findings underscore the need for systematic approaches and triangulation of evidence.

Cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibition (CETP) has been shown to increase levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) Current LDL-C target attainment is low, and novel phase 3 trials are underway to investigate whether CETP inhibitors result in reduction of cardiovascular disease risk in high-risk patients.

Hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl hydroxylase inhibitors (HIF-PHIs) are currently under clinical development for treating anemia in chronic kidney disease (CKD) It is important to monitor their cardiovascular safety. Genetic variants can be used as predictors to help inform the potential risk of adverse effects associated with drug treatments.

The evidence linking chronic kidney disease (CKD) to spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is inconclusive owing to possible confounding by comorbidities. A 3-stage study that combined observational and genetic analyses was conducted. CKD was found to be independently associated with higher risk of ICH. Mendelian randomization analyses suggest that this association was causal.

Prolyl hydroxylase (PHD) inhibitors are in clinical development for anaemia in chronic kidney disease. Epidemiological studies have reported conflicting results regarding safety of long-term therapeutic haemoglobin (Hgb) rises through PHD inhibition. Genetic variation in genes encoding PHDs can be used as partial proxies to investigate the potential effects of Hgb rises.

In mice, GPR146 (G-protein-coupled receptor 146) deficiency reduces plasma lipids and protects against atherosclerosis. Whether these findings translate to humans is unknown.

Nonlinear association between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] concentration and all-cause mortality has been widely reported for the general population. This association has not been quantified for individuals with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) We identified 2690 females and 2532 males with diagnosed IBD at baseline in the UK Biobank.

 type 2 diabetes (T2D) is associated with an increased risk of peripheral artery disease (PAD) However, whether the two diseases share a genetic basis and whether the relationship is causal remain unclear. We explored the genetic correlation and putative causal relationship between T2D and PAD in both Europeans and East Asians.

Among exome-sequenced participants in the UK Biobank, we identified 7194 migraine cases with the remaining 193,433 participants classified as controls. We investigated rare variants in 10 genes previously reported to be implicated in conditions with migraine as a prominent part of the phenotype. We found no evidence for association of these genes or variants with the common form of migraine.

 regional vulnerability index (RVI) was used to measure individual's brain-wide similarity to the expected SMI patterns derived from meta-analytical studies. UKBB participants with MDD had significantly higher RVI-MDD (Cohen's d = 0.20, p = 1 × 10 -23  ) than nonpsychiatric controls.

Higher tea intake was modestly associated with lower all-cause mortality risk among those who drank 2 or more cups per day. Findings were similar regardless of whether participants also drank coffee.

Monogenic disorders are estimated to account for 10%-12% of patients with kidney failure. We report the unexpected finding of an unusual uromodulin (UMOD) variant in multiple pedigrees within the British population. We demonstrate a shared haplotype indicative of an ancestral variant.

Study included 321,672 participants free of HF at baseline from the UK Biobank. During a median follow-up of 12.0 years, 8212 cases of HF were uncovered. Compared with participants with low PA, the hazard ratios (HRs) were 0.69 and 0.61 for moderate and high PA, respectively.

Early identification of individuals at risk of sudden cardiac death (SCD) remains a major challenge. The ECG is a simple, common test, with potential for large-scale application. We developed and tested the predictive value of a novel index quantifying T-wave morphologic variations.

Little is known regarding the potential relationship between clonal hematopoiesis (CH) of indeterminate potential (CHIP) and risk of prostate cancer. We evaluated the association of age-related CHIP with overall and aggressive prostate cancer risk in two large whole-exome sequencing studies.

Job satisfaction plays an important role for the life quality and health of working individuals. Neurotic and stress disorders, eating disorders and other mental health disorders were strongly associated with lower job satisfaction. Neuroticism was strongly linked to job satisfaction but was not associated with job tenure.

Study aimed to investigate the associations between ultra-processed food (UPF) consumption and the risk of cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality in the UK Biobank Cohort. 60 298 participants aged 40 years or older were evaluated.

Newborn screening (NBS) dramatically improves outcomes in severe childhood disorders. In many genetic diseases, however, outcomes remain poor because NBS has lagged behind drug development. Rapid whole-genome sequencing (rWGS) is attractive for comprehensive NBS because it concomitantly examines almost all genetic diseases.

End-stage knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a highly debilitating disease for which total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is an effective treatment option. Although a genetic component to OA in general has been described, evaluation of the genetic contribution to end-stage OA of the knee is limited. We present a genome-wide association study involving patients undergoing TKA for primary knee OA to characterize the genetic features of severe disease on a population level.

Traditional classification systems of metabolic-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) do not account for the high rate of extrahepatic complications. To create a new classification of MAFLD using metabolic parameters to identify risks of complications more accurately.

Night shift workers had a higher hypertension risk than day shift workers, which increased with increasing frequency of night shift work. Night shift work was associated with increased hypertension risk, which was modified by the genetic risk for hypertension.

Mendelian randomization (MR) is a form of instrumental variable analysis used to investigate causality using observational data. We used MR and data from UK Biobank in a proof-of-principle study to investigate confounding due to reverse causation. We focus on the association between alcohol consumption (exposure) and outcomes including educational attainment and physical and mental health.

Genetic liability to RA was associated with an increased risk of CAD and ICH. The heightened cardiovascular risk should be actively monitored and managed in RA patients.

Lifestyle factors are similarly associated with risk of heart failure (HF) for individuals with different metabolic or genetic risk status. Healthy lifestyle factors included avoidance of smoking, no obesity, regular physical activity, and healthy diet.

The etiology of adhesive capsulitis involves inflammation, thickening, and fibrosis of the shoulder capsule. The underlying genetic factors are poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to identify genetic variants associated with adhesive Capsulitis using the UK Biobank (UKB) cohort. It was also to compare them with variants associated. with Dupuytren disease investigating a common etiology between the 2 fibrotic disorders.

Iiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is an incurable lung disease characterised by progressive scarring leading to alveolar stiffness, reduced lung capacity and impeded gas transfer. We aimed to identify genetic variants associated with declining lung capacity or declining gas transfer after diagnosis of IPF.

Exome-sequencing studies of population biobanks provide an opportunity to systematically evaluate the impact of rare coding variations. We find that the discovery of genetic associations is tightly linked to frequency and is correlated with metrics of deleteriousness and natural selection.

Psychologic wellbeing can impact cardiovascular health. We aimed to evaluate the joint association of multiple psychologic wellbeing factors with cardiovascular diseases (CVD) and examine whether this association was modified by genetic susceptibility. In the UK Biobank, 126,255 participants free of CVD at baseline were included.

Both genetics and ambient air pollutants contribute to depression. The degree to which genetic susceptibility modifies the effect of air pollution on depression remains unknown. 490,780 participants who were free of depression at baseline in the UK Biobank study were recruited from 2006 to 2010. PM 2.5 , PM 10 , NO 2 and NO x exposure were significantly positively associated with the risk of depression.

Study combined a retrospective longitudinal analysis of suspect and early manifest primary open angle glaucoma cases with 2 replication cohorts from the UK Biobank and the Canadian Longitudinal Study of Ageing. A lower BMI conferred a faster rate of visual field progression.

Sex differences related to immune responses can influence atopic manifestations in childhood asthma. While genome-wide association studies have investigated a sex-specific genetic architecture of the immune response, gene-by-sex interactions have not been extensively analysed for atopy-related markers.

This study investigated the association between a healthy lifestyle with all-cause, cause-specific mortality, and cancer incidence among individuals with metabolic syndrome. Healthy lifestyle scores were created based on MetS management guidelines, including never/quitting smoking, moderate drinking, good sleep, healthy diet, sufficient exercise, social support, and less sedentary behaviour.

The germline variant HSD3B1[1245A/C] affects outcomes of castration-resistant prostate cancer and is associated with estrogen receptor positivity in postmenopausal breast cancer. Like breast cancer, endometrial cancer is another malignancy with hormone-dependent and hormone-independent subtypes. We hypothesized that adrenal-restrictive HSD1B1 genotype would associate with cancer subtype.

Mental health and cognitive achievement are partly heritable, highly polygenic, and associated with brain variations in structure and function. The underlying neural mechanisms remain unclear. We investigated the association between genetic predispositions to various mental health and Cognitive traits and a large set of structural and functional brain measures from the UK Biobank.

An increasing proportion of people have a body mass index (BMI) classified as overweight or obese. published studies disagree whether this will be beneficial or detrimental to health. We applied and evaluated two intergenerational instrumental variable methods to estimate the average causal effect of BMI on mortality.

Vitamin C is an antioxidant with a potential role in the prevention of digestive system cancers. There is yet no consensus whether vitamin C has a causal role in these cancers. The aim of this study was to utilize Mendelian randomization to decipher the potential causal associations of vitamin C.

Neuroticism is a transdiagnostic feature of psychiatric disorders displaying prominent sex differences. We performed genome-wide association studies of neuroticism separately in males and females to identify sex-specific genetic and transcriptomic profiles. Male- and female-specific neuroticism polygenic scores were most significantly associated with mood disorders. We identified several molecular pathways that can partially explain the known sex differences in neurotic symptoms and their psychiatric comorbidities.

Gene panels with a series of strict variant filtering rules are often used for clinical analysis of exomes and genomes. Panel sizes vary, affecting the test's sensitivity and specificity. We investigated background rate of candidate variants in a population setting using gene panels developed to diagnose a range of heterogeneous monogenic diseases.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most frequently occurring type of dementia. Prolonged sleep duration may be one of the clinical predictors of a higher risk of AD.

For the first time, benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostate cancer are genetically related. Diagnoses of these two diseases were significantly correlated. BPH and PCa share common inherited genetics. This finding may have implications in disease etiology and risk stratification.

A major challenge of genome-wide association studies (GWASs) is to translate phenotypic associations into biological insights. We integrate a large GWAS on blood lipids involving 1.6 million individuals from five ancestries with a wide array of functional genomic datasets to discover regulatory mechanisms underlying lipid associations.

Dual sensory impairment is affecting over 10% of older adults worldwide. The long-term effect of dual sensory impairment on the risk of mortality remains controversial. We aim to investigate the impact of single or/and dual-sensory-impairment on mortality in a large population-based sample in the UK.

We apply our Bayesian grouped mixture of regressions model (GMRM) in the UK and Estonian Biobanks. We obtain the highest genomic prediction accuracy reported to date across 21 heritable traits. We then extend our GMRM prediction model to provide mixed-linear model association (MLMA) SNP marker estimates for genome-wide association (GWAS) discovery.

Males had on average steeper FC than females. Compared with whites, non-white individuals showed flatter FC. Ocular factors (visual acuity, refractive status, and CPRT) showed a graded inverse association with FC.

Exome-wide association study was conducted to detect rare variants. We detected 730,572 variants with MAF  Bonferroni adjusted  = 0.015. TMIE and ZIC2 were reported to be associated with several mental traits.

Lactase persistence (LP) is the most strongly selected monogenic trait to have evolved over the past 10,000 years. Lactase non-persistent individuals consumed milk when it became available but, under conditions of famine and/or increased pathogen exposure, this was disadvantageous, driving LP selection in prehistoric Europe.

Oesophageal adenocarcinoma (EA), with Barrett's oesophagus (BE) as a precursor, is the most prevalent EC subtype in the Western world. Study aims to contribute to better understand the genetic causes of BE/EA.

Elevated blood pressure (BP) is a prevalent modifiable risk factor for cardiovascular diseases and contributes to cognitive decline in late life. Here, we aim to delineate neurobiological correlates of BP at an individual level using machine learning and functional connectivity.

Psychiatric disorders and neuroticism are closely associated with central nervous system. Proper functioning depends on efficient protein renewal. This study aims to systematically analyze the association between anxiety / depression / neuroticism and each of the 439 proteins. Six common candidate proteins were associated with all three traits.

Previous studies stratified patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) based on clinical characteristics. This study used this approach in individuals with lifetime MDD who reported low wellbeing, a group of high clinical relevance.

Study includes 319,832 participants who were free of diabetes, cardiovascular disease and cancer at baseline in the UK Biobank study. The PsRS was calculated by counting the 12 social determinants of health from three social risk domains that had a statistically significant association with incident type 2 diabetes after Bonferroni correction.

 trigger finger and carpal tunnel syndrome are the two most common non-traumatic connective tissue disorders of the hand. Both conditions frequently co-occur, often in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. We aimed to identify a specific genetic locus associated with both diseases. We identified five independent loci, including one locus, DIRC3, that was co-localised with carpal Tunnel syndrome.

The fat-to-muscle mass ratio (FMR) has been proposed as a useful indicator to assess disease risk independent of overall obesity. Little is known about the association between FMR and dementia risk. We aimed to investigate sex-specific associations between total and regional F MR and incident dementia.

Population genetic structure is an important confounder in genome-wide association studies (GWASs) This may ultimately result in a biased polygenic risk score (PRS) prediction, especially when applied to another population. We aimed to investigate whether using a reference population (1000G) for computation of the PCs adjusted for in the discovery cohort improves PRS performance.

Obesity is associated with increased risk of depression, but the extent to which this association is symptom-specific is unknown. We examined associations of overweight and obesity with individual depressive symptoms. We pooled data from 15 population-based cohorts comprising 57,532 individuals aged 18 to 100 years at study entry.

The association between dyslipidemia and psoriasis has been studied widely. However, which individual indicators of serum lipids determine an increasing risk of incident Psoriasis is still underappreciated in prospective cohorts. On the basis of UK Biobank, we investigate the causal relationship between four serum Lipids and incident Psorsiasis by Cox proportional hazard model and Mendelian randomization analysis.

Habitual coffee consumption has been associated with multiple health benefits. A comprehensive analysis of disease trajectory and comorbidity networks in relation to coffee consumption is, however, currently lacking. We aimed to examine the health outcomes associated with habitual coffee consumption.

Recent genome-wide association studies of mood instability (MOOD) have found significant positive genetic correlation with major depression and weak correlations with other psychiatric disorders. We investigated the polygenic overlap between MOOD and psychiatric disorders beyond genetic correlation to better characterize putative shared genetic determinants.

Study aims to explore associations between HbA1c levels and risks of incident CVD in patients with gout. We included a total of 6,685 patients (mean age 59.7; 8.1% females) for analyses. During a mean follow-up of 7.3 years, there were 1,095 CVD events documented with an incidence of 2.26 events per 100 person-years (95% confidence interval [CI]: 2.13-2.40)

A total of 345,217 unrelated participants of white British descent were included in analyses. Genetic risk for T2D was estimated as a genome-wide polygenic risk score. A favorable lifestyle was defined in terms of four modifiable lifestyle components. metabolic health status was determined according to the presence of metabolic syndrome components.

We assess contributions to autoimmune disease of genes whose regulation is driven by enhancer regions (enhancer-related) and genes that regulate other genes in  trans (candidate master-regulator) We link these genes to SNPs using several SNP-to-gene (S2G) strategies and apply heritability analyses to draw three conclusions.

Genome-wide association study (GWAS) and meta-analysis association statistics highlighted one susceptibility locus, Tubulointerstitial Nephritis Antigen (TINAG), with genome-wide significance for dermatophytosis. The top SNP was a missense variant within TINAG, position chr6:54308557, alleles A > G, minor allele frequency (MAF) 0.014.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) derived from genotype data and family history of disease provide valuable information for predicting disease risk. But PRSs perform poorly when applied to diverse populations. Here, we explore methods for combining both types of information in UK Biobank data. We evaluated PRS, FH, and PRS-FH using liability-scale  R   2.

The associations between visceral adipose tissue (VAT) and bone mineral density (BMD) or fracture have been controversial and the causality of the associations remains to be assessed. This study aimed to explore the associations of VAT^ (predicted value of VAT mass) with BMD and fracture risk in men and women.

Study used UK Biobank, a large progressive cohort study of the UK population. The Asian ethnic group shows the greatest average number of comorbidities, followed by the Black and then White groups. Comorbidity prevalence varies significantly among the ethnic groups for almost all disease categories, with diabetes and hypertension showing the largest differences across groups. Diabetes and hypertension both show ethnic-specific com orbidities that may contribute to observed disease prevalence disparities.

Diet and genetic predisposition to adiposity are independent predictors of body composition. Study examined association of three diet quality indices and a polygenic risk score (PRS) with trunk fat, total fat mass, lean mass and bone mineral content.

A health-conscious lifestyle may protect against breast cancer in situ. Many studies lack information on screening participation. We evaluated the association between prediagnostic lifestyle and risk of breast cancer. Lifestyle was inversely associated with risk in women not reporting dietary changes.

The ageing process includes the development of debilitating musculoskeletal (MSK) conditions, including chronic back pain (CBP) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) The mechanisms involved in the genetic-epidemiological relationships between these MSK phenotypes are controversial and limited.

The direct effects of general adiposity and central adiposity on circulating lipoproteins, lipids, and metabolites are unknown. We used new metabolic data from UK Biobank ( N =109,532, a five-fold higher N over previous studies) Higher BMI decreased apolipoprotein B and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) whilst BMI increased triglycerides only before WHR-adjustment.

Current global diabetes prevention programmes appear to be glucocentric, and do not fully acknowledge the ramifications of cardiorenal risk factors in smokers and ex-smokers. More holistic approach is needed to prevent vascular complications in people with prediabetes and diabetes before and after quitting.

Genome-wide association (GWA) analyses were performed utilizing data from the Kaiser Permanente Research Board (KPRB) and the UK Biobank. There were a total of 3,872 combined cases of chondromalacia from the KPRB and the British cohorts. Genetic markers in  ARHGAP15 and  MAGEC2 appear to be associated with the condition.

Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a leading cause of sudden cardiac death in young people. Rare genetic variants are well-established contributors to HCM risk, but common genetic variants have recently been implicated in disease pathogenesis. This cohort study assessed the relative and joint contributions of rare genetic variants and a common variant (polygenic) score to risk of HCM. Both rare and common variant predictors were then evaluated in the context of relevant clinical risk factors.

Previous studies have shown lower cardiovascular risk with higher high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels. However, recent data in the general population have shown increased risk of adverse outcomes at very high HDL-C concentrations. This prospective, multicenter, cohort study recruited patients with CAD from the UK Biobank (UKB) and the Emory Cardiovascular Biobanks (EmCAB), respectively.

Study used large-scale data of UK Biobank and ESTHER study. Used three major former smoking traits: pack-years, smoking duration and time since smoking cessation. This score was robustly associated with higher risks of mortality.

The mechanisms linking APOE to AD-particularly the apoE protein's role in AD pathogenesis-remain poorly understood. This study combined case-control, family-based, population-based and longitudinal AD-related cohorts. Two missense variants were associated with a 2-fold to 3-fold decreased AD risk. The large risk reductions reported here suggest that protein chemistry and functional assays of these variants should be pursued.

Pathogenic variants associated with inherited cardiomyopathy are recognized as important and clinically actionable when identified. This was a genetic association study of participants in Atherosclerosis in Risk Communities (ARIC) and the UK Biobank. Incidence of all-cause mortality, heart failure, and atrial fibrillation were determined. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, echocardiography, and electrocardiogram measures were assessed.

A total of 501 379 participants from UK biobank who completed the questionnaire on the frequency of adding salt to foods at baseline. During a median of 9.0 years of follow-up, 18 474 premature deaths were documented. The multivariable hazard ratios [95% confidence interval (CI)] of all-cause premature mortality were 1.00 (reference), 1.02 (0.99, 1.06), and 1.28 (1.20,1.35) (P-trend)

PM 2.5 and NO 2 were positively associated with COVID-19 hospitalisations and deaths in minimally adjusted models, but not in fully adjusted models. No associations for PM 10 were found. In analyses with additional adjustment for pre-existing chronic disease, effect estimates were not substantially attenuated.

Wellbeing, an important component of mental health, is influenced by genetic and environmental factors. Previous association studies between brain structure and wellbeing have typically focused on volumetric measures and employed small cohorts. We explored the relationships between wellbeing and brain morphometrics (volume, thickness and surface area) at both phenotypic and genetic levels.

Autoimmune and allergic diseases are outcomes of the dysregulation of the immune system. Study aimed to elucidate differences or shared components in genetic backgrounds between autoimmune and allergic disease. Multi-trait GWAS meta-analysis newly identified six allergic disease-associated loci.

Postexercise heart rate recovery (HRR) is an important indicator of cardiac autonomic function and abnormal HRR is associated with adverse outcomes. We hypothesized that deep learning on resting electrocardiogram (ECG) tracings may identify individuals with impaired HRR. We trained a deep learning model to infer HRR based on resting ECG waveforms among UK Biobank participants.

Review aims to summarize key methods for estimating years of life lost (YLL) We used data from UK Biobank and multimorbidity as our example. For the YPLL and GBD method, the analytical procedures allow only to quantify average YLL.

 xSqueezeIt (XSI) allows for a file size reduction of 4-20× compared with compressed BCF. It has potential for 'compressive genomics' on the UK Biobank whole-genome sequencing genotypes. The XSI file format specifications, API and command line tool are released under open-source license.

A higher polygenic resilience score was associated with a lower risk for PD. Although no single locus reached genome-wide significance, MAGMA gene-based analyses nominated TBCA as a putative gene. Subsequent functional enrichment analysis highlighted histone methylation as a potential pathway harboring resilience alleles.

Millions of women worldwide use exogenous hormones as oral contraceptives or hormone replacement therapy. Still, time-dependent and long-term consequences of these hormones on stroke risk remains unclear. We examined the association between self-reported oral contraceptive use and stroke risk in 257 194 women from the UK Biobank.

Gastrointestinal (GI) cancer risk has been associated with metabolic syndrome (MetS), a surrogate indicator for unhealthy lifestyles, and a number of genetic loci. The combined effect of MetS and genetic variants on GI cancer risk is uncertain.

The interplay between pain of different chronicity and cardiovascular disease is incompletely understood. We aimed to investigate the association between different levels of chronic or nonchronic pain and risk of CVD. Participants in the UK Biobank who reported pain at baseline were divided into three groups.

Previous studies had limited power to assess the associations of circulating insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) and IGF-binding proteins (IGFBPs) with clinically relevant prostate cancer as a primary endpoint. We aimed to investigate associations of IGF-I, IGF-II, IGFBP-1, IGF BP-2 and IGFBP3 concentrations with overall, aggressive and early-onset prostate cancer.

There is growing recognition that chronic liver conditions influence brain health. We evaluated the association between liver fibrosis and incident dementia in a cohort study. Liver fibrosis in middle age was associated with an increased risk of incident dementia, independent of shared risk factors.

The complex relationship between life course traumas and cardiovascular disease (CVD) and the underpinning pathways are poorly understood. Using data from 104,939 participants from the UK Biobank, we demonstrate that subgroups of childhood, adulthood, and lifetime traum as were associated with CVD. Formal mediation analyses suggested that phenotypic aging partially mediated the above associations.

Intracranial volume (ICV) is frequently used in volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies. Findings of associations between ICV and age have varied, potentially due to differences in ICV estimation methods. We found both positive and negative cross-sectional associations with age, depending on dataset and ICv estimation method. Longitudinal ICV reductions were found for all ICV estimating methods.

Current epidemiologic evidence indicates that smoking is associated with a lower endometrial cancer risk. However, it is unknown if this association is causal or confounded. We conducted complementary observational and Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses. In the observational analysis, lifetime amount of smoking and ever having smoked regularly were associated with lower risk.

Progressive eGFR-decline can lead to kidney failure, necessitating dialysis or transplantation. Hundreds of loci from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for eG FR help explain population cross section variability. We provide a large data resource and prioritized genes for kidney function decline.

There is a paucity of data regarding the phenotype of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) gene variants. We aimed to determine the frequency and penetrance of DCM-associated putative pathogenic gene variants in a general adult population. UK Biobank participants had undergone whole exome sequencing, ECG, and cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging.

UK Biobank cohort included 61,958 participants aged 40 to 70 years from April 2007 to December 2016. Healthy behaviors examined were: never smoking, high level of physical activity, high diet quality, moderate alcohol intake, and optimal sleep.

Cataract surgery was associated with decreased risk of all-cause dementia. Cataract was negatively associated with cortical volumes, aging-related subcortical volumes, and fractional anisotropy of white matter fibers.

We assessed the associations of vegetarian and non-vegetarian diets with risks of all cancer, colorectal cancer, postmenopausal breast cancer, and prostate cancer. We conducted a prospective analysis of 472,377 UK Biobank participants who were free from cancer at recruitment. Compared with regular meat-eaters, being a low meat-eater, fish-eaters, or vegetarians were all associated with a lower risk of cancer.

Right ventricular (RV) structure and function influence morbidity and mortality from coronary artery disease (CAD), dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), pulmonary hypertension and heart failure. Little is known about the genetic basis of RV measurements. We identify 25 unique loci associated with at least one RV phenotype at P.

Congenital heart diseases often involve maldevelopment of the evolutionarily recent right heart chamber. We fine-tuned deep learning models to recognize the right atrium, right ventricle and pulmonary artery, measuring right heart structures in 40,000 individuals. Genome-wide association studies identified 130 distinct loci associated with at least one right heart measurement.

Consumption of meals bought from out-of-home sources is a suggested risk factor for obesity. Consumption of fast-food/caf&#233; meals was not consistently associated with BMI or percent body fat.

Coffee consumption has been associated with several adverse pregnancy outcomes. We investigated whether there is a causal relationship between coffee consumption and miscarriage, stillbirth, birthweight, gestational age and pre-term birth using Mendelian randomization.

ASD is diagnosed three to four times more frequently in males than in females. Sex differences in common inherited genetic risk for ASD are less studied, particularly within families. Using both epidemiologic and genetic approaches, our findings strongly support an FPE against ASD's common inherited influences.

Mood disorder was associated with onset of cardiometabolic multimorbidity (CMM) However, the impact of mood disorder on the transition from single CMD to CMM was poorly understood. A total of 95,351 participants with one CMD, with median age of 59 (range 40 to 71) years were enrolled at baseline.

 Depression and anxiety are the leading mental health problems worldwide. Handgrip strength (HGS) was inversely associated with incident depression and anxiety. HGS is a simple, non-invasive, and inexpensive measure. It could be easily used to stratify patients.

The current study aims to investigate the combined association of walking pace and grip strength with incident type 2 diabetes (T2D) A total of 205 738 participants (mean age 56.6 +/- 8.1 years, 115 139 [56.0%] women) without diagnosed or unknown diabetes at baseline from the UK Biobank study were included in this prospective study.

There is inconsistent evidence for the causal role of serum insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) concentration in the pathogenesis of human age-related diseases such as type 2 diabetes (T2D) We investigated the association between IGF-1 and T2D using Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses in the UK Biobank.

We conducted a multiancestry whole-genome sequencing analysis of blood pressure among 51 456 Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine and Centers for Common Disease Genomics program participants. Two blood pressure signals achieved genome-wide significance in meta-analyses of stage-1 and stage-2 single variant findings. Among them, a rare intergenic variant at novel locus was associated with lower systolic blood pressure.

Haplotypes can be estimated from unphased genotype data via statistical methods. We show that genotype error inflates the observed switch error rate and that the relative bias increases with sample size. We propose an alternate definition of phase error that counts two consecutive switch errors as a single error.

Phenome-wide association study used health data from participants in 3 cohorts. Germline variants in 23 hereditary cancer genes were aggregated for association analyses. All 38 established gene-cancer associations were replicated, and 19 new associations were identified.

Keratoconus can be a debilitating corneal ectasia in which the cornea thins, bulges, and steepens into a conical shape. Early features include myopia and irregular astigmatism, which affect vision and can be treated with contact lenses, collagen cross-linking, or, in advanced cases, cornea transplant. However, obtaining very large keratoconuus data sets for a genome-wide association study is problematic.

Recent work has found increasing evidence of mitigated, incompletely penetrant phenotypes in heterozygous carriers of recessive Mendelian disease variants. We leveraged whole-exome imputation within the full UK Biobank cohort to extend such analyses to 3,475 rare variants. Testing these variants for association with 58 quantitative traits yielded 102 significant associations involving variants previously implicated in 34 different diseases.

PRKN mutations are the most common recessive cause of Parkinson's disease and are a promising target for gene and cell replacement therapies. Identification of biallelic PRKN patients at the population scale remains a challenge, as roughly half are copy number variants and many single nucleotide polymorphisms are of unclear significance.

UK Biobank participants (n = 36,260) aged (40-70) years were included and stratified by sex and four age groups (age &#8804; 45, 46-55, 56-65 and > 65 years) Multi-level regression analyses were used to assess the association between mean arterial pressure, systolic BP, diastolic BP and brain volumes. Interaction effects between body mass index (BMI), antihypertensive medication and BP in predicting brain volumes and WMLs were also investigated.

Study examined association of BMI and waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) with CVD risk using genetic scores of the obesity measurements as proxies. High BMI or higher WHR genetic scores were associated with an increase in CVA risk.

IBD may be associated with an increased risk of overall cancer and cancer-specific mortality. digestive cancers, nonmelanoma and male genital cancers were observed in IBD patients.

Recent evidence suggests periodontitis (PD) causes hypertension, which is a precursor to development of other systemic diseases. The aim of this study was to examine the effect of hypertension and PD on the risk of subsequent systemic disease. The study included 244,393 UK Biobank participants who were free of systemic disease other than hypertension at baseline.

Exercise boosts neurogenesis in the mouse hippocampus. Increased levels of the selenium transport protein selenoprotein P (SEPP1) in the serum of exercised animals may contribute to the impact of exercise. Selenium supplementation in the diet had the same effect as exercise in reducing some cognitive impairments associated with aging.

Study included 118,153 UK Biobank participants with data on statin use and corneal-compensated IOP. After excluding participants with neurodegenerative diseases, 41,638 participants with macular retinal nerve fiber layer thickness (mRNFL) were available for analysis. Statin use was weakly associated with thinner mRNFL.

 Associations of liver, metabolic, and inflammatory biomarkers in blood with body shape are unclear. waist circumference (WC) and hip circumference (HC) are dependent on overall body size, resulting in bias. Study confirms associations with waist and hip size, independent of BMI, for metabolic biomarkers but only with waist size for inflammatory biomarker.

Statins lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and are widely used for the prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Whether statin-induced low- density lipop protein reduction increases risk of intracerebral haemorrhage has been debated for almost two decades. Using genomic data from randomized trials, we derived a polygenic score from 35 single nucleotide polymorphisms of on-statinLow-density Lipoprotein response.

Cardiometabolic disease (CMD) increases the risk of mortality, but the extent to which this can be offset by adherence to a healthy lifestyle is unknown. We aimed to investigate whether and to what extent a combination of healthy lifestyle was associated with lower risk of total mortality.

Socioeconomic status (SES) correlates with brain structure, a relation of interest given the long-observed relations of SES to cognitive abilities and health. In an unprecedently large study, here, we assess genetic and environmental contributions to SES differences in neuroanatomy.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) quantify the contribution of multiple genetic loci to an individual's likelihood of a complex trait or disease. Existing PRSs estimate this likelihood with common genetic variants, excluding the impact of rare variants. We report on a method to identify rare variants associated with outlier gene expression and integrate their impact into PRS predictions.

Asthma is the most common chronic condition in children and the third leading cause of hospitalization in pediatrics. A polygenic risk score (PRS) with predictive value across ancestries has not been evaluated for this important trait. This study aimed to train and validate a PRS relying on genetic determinants for asthma.

Low vitamin D status is often associated with systemic low-grade inflammation as reflected by elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) levels. We investigated the causality and direction of the association between Vitamin D status and CRP using linear and non-linear Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses.

There is growing evidence for the inherited basis of susceptibility to childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) Genome-wide association studies have identified non-coding ALL risk variants at the ARID5B gene locus. The exact functional effects and the molecular mechanism linking ARID 5B to B-cell ALL leukemogenesis remain largely unknown.

We propose a simple framework - meta-matching - to translate predictive models from large-scale datasets to new unseen non-brain-imaging phenotypes in small-scale studies. Using the UK Biobank (N = 36,848) and Human Connectome Project (HCP) datasets, we demonstrate that meta- matching can greatly boost the prediction of new phenotypes.

Common adrenal-permissive missense-encoding variant HSD3B1(1245C) that enables androgen synthesis from adrenal precursors was investigated. The outcomes were identification as a COVID case among all subjects, COVID positivity among COVID-tested subjects, and mortality.

Study looked at 127 496 participants who completed a psychological wellbeing questionnaire and did not have type 2 diabetes at baseline. Moderate to extreme unhappiness, presence of broad depression, and a neuroticism score &#8805;3 were all significantly associated with an increased risk of diabetes.

The association between vitamin E and cancer risk has been widely investigated by observational studies, but the findings remain inconclusive. We aimed to evaluate the causal effect of circulating vitamin E on the risk of ten common cancers, including bladder, breast, colorectal, esophagus, lung, oral and pharynx, ovarian, pancreatic, prostate, and kidney cancer.

Cancer patients treated with capecitabine and oxaliplatin (XELOX) often develop hand-foot syndrome (HFS) or palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia. We found that 68% of patients from COIN and COIN-B with grade 2-3 HFS responded to treatment as compared to 58% with grade 0-1 HFS. HFS was also associated with improved overall survival.

 PKP2 (PKP2 tv) variants cause arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) yet display varied penetrance and expressivity. We determined the prevalence of an ARVC phenotype and other cardiovascular traits based on clinical and procedural data. Atrial fibrillation was over-represented in the UKB cohort in those with PKP1 tv.

Method based on inverse probability weighting, extended natural effect model method and weight-based imputation strategies were used. Simulation experiments of three scenarios were carried out to compare the performance of different methods in estimating direct and indirect effects in different situations. The regression method is more suitable for continuous mediator, and the inverse probabilities weighting method is for binary mediator.

Low vitamin D status is associated with a higher risk for cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) Although most existing linear Mendelian randomization (MR) studies reported a null effect of vitamin D on CVD risk, a non-linear effect cannot be excluded. Our aim was to apply the non- linear MR design to investigate the association of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] concentration.

Blood copper may have causal association with prostate cancer, malignant and unknown neoplasms of the brain and nervous system, hypertension, and dysphagia. Considering that copper is modifiable, exploring whether regulation of copper levels can be used to optimize health outcomes might have public health importance.

Review of current state of genetic risk models for kidney cancer. 39 models predicting the development of kidney cancer were identified. 31 of the models were validated in the UK Biobank cohort. Models containing a larger number of genetic variants performed better.

In UK Biobank, 661 men died from prostate cancer over a mean follow-up of 11.6 years. BMI, body fat percentage and WC were strongly associated with imaging estimates of total and central adiposity. The hazard ratios (HR) for prostate cancer death were 1.07 (95% confidence interval = 0.97-1.17) per 5 kg/m2 higher BMI.

We identify four broad factors (neurodevelopmental, compulsive, psychotic and internalizing) that underlie genetic correlations among the disorders. Despite moderate-to-high genetic correlations across all 11 disorders, we find little utility of a single dimension of genetic risk across psychiatric disorders.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) aggregate the effects of genetic variants across the genome and are used to predict risk of complex diseases, such as obesity. Current PRSs only include common variants (minor allele frequency (MAF) &#8805;1%), whereas the contribution of rare variants to predict disease remains unknown. Here, we examine whether augmenting the standard common variant PRS with a rare variantPRS improves prediction of obesity. We used genome-wide genotyped and imputed data on 451,145 European-ancestry participants.

We analyzed data on 4,657 plasma proteins from 7,213 European American and 1,871 African American individuals. Elastic Net produced powerful models for protein prediction in both populations. An application of proteome-wide association studies to serum urate and gout implicated several proteins.

Previous research suggests that inflammation may lead to structural brain changes via activation of microglia and/or astrocytic dysfunction in a range of neuropsychiatric disorders. This study used multistage linked analyses, including mendelian randomization (MR), gene expression correlation, and connectivity analyses. In the UK Biobank sample, genetically predicted levels of IL-6 were associated with GMV in the middle temporal cortex.

The host genetic background for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is incompletely understood. We aimed to determine if four germline genetic polymorphisms, previously associated with progressive alcohol-related and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, are also associated with HCC. Four HCC case-control data sets were constructed. The frequency of each variant was compared between HCC cases and cirrhosis controls.

Glomerular hematuria can have a genetic basis, including Alport syndrome and IgA nephropathy. We used summary statistics to identify genetic variants associated with the condition in White British UK Biobank participants. A strongly associated locus on chromosome 2 was identified.

Late-life depression (LLD) is characterized by considerable heterogeneity in clinical manifestation. This study characterized LLD into 2 dimensions with distinct neuroanatomical, cognitive, clinical, and genetic profiles. The 2 dimensions demonstrated significant single-nucleotide variant-based heritability of 18% to 27% within the general population.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an emerging cause of liver-related events (LREs) We assessed the ability of a composite score based on clinical features, metabolic comorbidities, and genetic variants to predict LREs.

Little is known about gene-gene (G × G) interactions that may influence the risk of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) We analyzed 58 billion G × G interactions from 340,958 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) The top interactions were further tested by demographically adjusted logistic regression models. We used the selected interactions to build lung cancer screening models of NSCLC, separately, for never and ever smokers.

Serum lipids are modifiable, routinely collected blood test features associated with cardiovascular health. We examined the association of commonly collected serum lipid measures with intraocular pressure. Higher levels of TC, HDL-C, and LDL-C were associated independently with higher IOPcc in both cohorts.

Arterial stiffness (AS), measured by arterial stiffness index (ASI), can be considered as a major denominator in cardiovascular (CV) diseases. According to European consensus, AS is defined as ASI > 10 m/s. The purpose of this study was to investigate the determinants of ASI among UK Biobank normotensive and healthy participants.

 Epidemiological studies reveal that marijuana increases the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) Little is known about the mechanism. We found that marijuana smoking activated inflammatory cytokines implicated in CVD. Genistein is a CB1 antagonist that attenuates &#916; 9 -THC-induced atherosclerosis.

Sleep duration, psychiatric disorders and dementias are closely interconnected in older adults. However, the underlying genetic mechanisms and brain structural changes are unknown. Using data from the UK Biobank for participants primarily of European ancestry aged 38-73 years, including 94% white people, we identified a nonlinear association between sleep and cognition.

Using older adults aged 60 years and over in the UK Biobank, we examined the association between leukocyte telomere length and osteosarcopenia. Telomere shortening is linked to oxidative stress and inflammation, both of which are linked to bone and muscle loss. Longer telomeres was associated with a lower risk of slow walking pace, but not low grip strength or low bone density.

ExPheWas (exphewas.ca) is a gene-based phenome-wide association study browser and platform. It enables the conduct of gene- based Mendelian randomization. Interactive visualizations are provided through a browser to facilitate data exploration.

Personality is a strong determinant for several health-related behaviours and has been linked to the development of cardiovascular diseases. However, the reports of personality's mediating role have been inconsistent with no data available from large population-based cohorts. Study aimed to create proxies for the Big Five personality traits, extraversion, agreeableness, conscientiousness, openness and neuroticism.

Cardiometabolic risk (CMR) factors are associated with accelerated brain aging and increased risk for sex-dimorphic illnesses. It is unknown how CMRs interact with sex and apolipoprotein E-&#1013;4 (APOE4), a known genetic risk factor for AD, to influence brain age across different life stages. We investigated whether associations between white matter Brain Age Gap (BAG) and body mass index (BMI), waist-to-hip ratio (WHR), body fat percentage (BF%), and APOE4 status varied between males and females.

We report the largest genome-wide association study (GWAS) on C-reactive protein (CRP), a marker of systemic inflammation. We identify 266 independent loci, of which 211 are not previously reported. 27 clinical outcomes associated with genetically determined CRP.

High vitamin D status has been suggested to have beneficial effects on the brain. We examined the association between 25(OH)D concentrations with neuroimaging outcomes. Vitamin D deficiency was associated with an increased risk of dementia and stroke, with the strongest associations for those with 25( OH)D.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) remains the leading cause of death despite scientific advances. Elucidating shared CAD/pneumonia pathways may reveal novel insights regarding CAD pathways. We performed genome-wide pleiotropy analyses of CAD and pneumonia.

Study looked at 466 788 participants of the UK Biobank. The outcome was all-cause dementia incidence and mortality. Grip strength was assessed using a Jamar J00105 hydraulic hand dynamometer.

Chronic multisite musculoskeletal pain (CMP) is common and highly morbid. Vulnerability factors for CMP are poorly understood. Previous studies have shown that both small hippocampal brain volume and genetic risk alleles in a key stress system gene, FKBP5, increase vulnerability for chronic pain.

Little is known about how the effect of genes can be modulated by the environment, creating a gene-environment interaction. MRNMs provide unbiased polygenic-covariate interaction estimates for a quantitative trait. Of the 17 selected covariates, 11 significantly modulate deviations in depressive symptoms through the modelled interactions. No single interaction explains a large proportion of phenotypic variation.

Sleep quality (duration) is associated with health-related quality of life (HRQoL) Most studies have been small-sized and targeted at young and middle-aged adults. Few studies have explored the path mechanism of sleep disorders leading to impaired HRQOL.

There is inconsistent evidence on whether genetic risk for dementia modifies the association between hypertension and dementia. In 198,965 dementia-free participants aged &#8805;60 years, Cox proportional-hazards models were used to investigate the association. Hypertension was associated with a 19% increased risk of dementia.

Genetic variants associated with caffeine metabolism were leveraged in the two-sample Mendelian randomization framework. Genetically predicted higher plasma caffeine levels were associated with a non-significant lower risk of Alzheimer's disease. No overall association was found.

Mildly elevated bilirubin might mitigate cardiometabolic risk factors including adiposity, dyslipidemia, and high blood pressure (BP) We investigated the cross-sectional relationship between (total) bilirUBin and baseline risk factors in 467,519 UK Biobank study participants.

Ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM) gene has been widely studied in oncology. Independent effects of ATM missense variants and protein-truncating variants (PTVs) on neoplasms have not been heavily studied. Whole-exome sequencing data and clinical health records of 394,694 UK Biobank European participants were used in this analysis.

Mice with experimental nerve damage can display long-lasting neuropathic pain behavior. We show that 4 months and later after nerve injury, male but not female mice displayed telomere length (TL) reduction and p53-mediated cellular senescence in the spinal cord.

Schizophrenia and bipolar disorder are neurodevelopmental disorders with overlapping symptoms and a shared genetic background. Deviations in intracranial volume (ICV) - a marker for neurodevelopment - differ between schizophrenia and bipolar Disorder. We investigated whether genetic risk for schizophrenia andipolar disorder is related to ICV in the general population by using UK Biobank data.

Sleep has been associated with aging and relevant health outcomes, but the causal relationship remains inconclusive. We investigated the associations of sleep behaviors with biological ages (BAs) among 363,886 middle and elderly adults from UK Biobank. A one-unit increase in sleep index was associated with 0.104- and 0.119-year decreases in KDM-biological AA and PhenoAge.

Diastole is the sequence of physiological events that occur in the heart during ventricular filling and principally depends on myocardial relaxation and chamber stiffness. Abnormal diastolic function is related to many cardiovascular disease processes and is predictive of health outcomes. Here, we use machine-learning cardiac motion analysis to measure diastolics functional traits in 39,559 participants of the UK Biobank.

With age, the prevalence of diseases such as fatty liver disease, cirrhosis, and type two diabetes increases. Approaches to both predict abdominal age and identify risk factors for accelerated abdominal age may ultimately lead to advances that will delay the onset of these diseases.

 Depression is assessed in various ways in research, with large population studies often relying on minimal phenotyping. We studied 39,300 UK Biobank imaging participants (20,701 female; aged 44.6 to 82.3 years, M = 64.1, SD = 7.5)

Noninvasive assessment of histological features of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has been an intensive research area over the last decade. We aimed to develop a simple noninvasive score using routine laboratory tests to identify those at high risk for NAFLD. The final predictive model, designated as Fibrotic NASH Index, combined aspartate aminotransferase, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and hemoglobin A1c.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the leading cause of liver disorders. We found that rare mutations in a gene called autophagy-related 7 (ATG7) increase the risk of developing severe liver disease in individuals with dysmetabolism.

Physical activity, body mass index (BMI), body fat percentage, waist circumference, and waist to hip ratio changes were categorized on the basis of public health and clinical guidelines. Among 29,610 participants, 545 deaths and 2970 CVD events occurred. Increases in physical activity to meet guidelines lowered all-cause mortality and CVD risk equal to that of those who continually met guidelines.

A rare genetic variant (p.Thr95Ile) in the manganese transporter SLC30A10 is associated with elevated plasma alanine transaminase (ALT) Heterozygotes also had higher corrected T1 on liver MRI, a marker of hepatic inflammation. These data support that the variant may increase the risk of liver disease.

Over 400 variants in the cystic fibrosis (CF) transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) are CF-causing. CFTR modulators target variants to improve lung function, but marked variability in response exists. Alternative epithelial ion channel/transporters such as SLC26A9 could compensate for CFTR dysfunction.

Studies suggest that adiposity in childhood may reduce the risk of breast cancer in later life. The biological mechanism underlying this effect is unclear but is likely to be independent of body size in adulthood. Using a Mendelian randomization framework, we investigate 18 hypothesised mediators of the protective effect of childhood adiposity.

Rare sequence variation in genes underlying cardiac repolarization and common polygenic variation influence QT interval duration. Current clinical genetic testing of individuals with unexplained QT prolongation is restricted to examination of monogenic rare variants. Recent emergence of large-scale biorepositories with sequence data enables examination of the joint contribution of rare and common variations.

Intraocular pressure (IOP) is a highly heritable risk factor for primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) GAS7 is quite close to a cannabis receptor at chromosome 17p31.3. CB1, GPR18, and cannabis are associated with cannabis IOP reduction in mice.

Depression and obesity are complex global health problems. Recent studies suggest that a genetic predisposition to obesity might be accentuated in people with depression. Here, we tested the hypothesis that depression accentuates genetic susceptibility to obesity.

South Asians are at high risk of developing type 2 diabetes (T2D) We identify 21 novel genetic loci for significant association with T2D. A polygenic risk score based on South Asian-derived summary statistics shows a 4-fold higher risk between the top and bottom quartile.

No reference standards currently exist to quantify individual differences in neuroimaging metrics over time. We assemble an interactive open resource to benchmark brain morphology derived from any current or future sample of MRI data. We aggregated 123,984 MRI scans, across more than 100 primary studies, from 101,457 human participants between 115 days post-conception to 100 years of age.

Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) technology has been increasingly used in neuroscience studies. Reproducibility of statistically significant findings generated by MRI-based studies has been heavily debated. Most currently available reproducibility measures depend on thresholds for the test statistics. It is crucial to elucidate the relationship between overall study reproducibilities and sample size in an experimental design.

UK Biobank has recruited more than 500 000 volunteers from the United Kingdom. Ongoing medical imaging of 100 000 participants with 70 000 follow-up sessions will yield up to 170 000 MRI scans, enabling image analysis of body composition, organs, and muscle.

The storage amount of liver glycogen could affect the liver fibrosis assessment made by MRI-based methods. We conducted an association study of the glycogen metabolism genes based on the PDFF data of 11,129 participants in the UK Biobank. The effect of SNPs in these genes on non-alcoholic fatty liver disease was estimated by a meta-analysis of the available NAFLD case-control studies.

Clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) predisposes both hematologic malignancy and CAD. TERT (which encodes telomerase reverse transcriptase) is the most significantly associated germline locus for CHIP in genome-wide association studies.

The link between hearing impairment and air pollution has not been established. We investigated the association between air pollution and hearing impairment in British adults aged 37-73 years. We found that exposure to PM 10 , NO X , and NO 2 was associated with hearing impairment.

Gene set findings implicate both early brain development and neurodegenerative processes in the rates of brain changes. Global genetic overlap with depression, schizophrenia, cognitive functioning, insomnia, height, body mass index and smoking. Identifying variants involved in structural brain changes may help to determine biological pathways underlying optimal and dysfunctional brain development.

Multiplex Serology platform measures quantitative antibody responses against 45 antigens from 20 infectious agents. Antibody responses included human herpes, hepatitis, polyoma, papilloma, and retroviruses. Assayed a random subset of 9695 UK Biobank participants.

Urban greenspace provides opportunities for outdoor exercise and may increase physical activity, with accompanying health benefits. Areas suitable for walking are also associated with increased physical activity. interactions with greenspace are poorly understood. We investigated associations of walkability and green walkability with physical activity in an urban adult cohort.

Paediatric GCT samples were obtained from a Children's Oncology Group study and state biobank programs in California and Michigan. Mendelian randomisation was used to look at the association between genetically predicted LTL and GCTs and TERT variants.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a cardiac arrhythmia associated with an elevated risk of stroke, heart failure, and mortality. Lipoprotein(a) (Lp[a]) is a recognized risk factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD), which itself increases AF risk. It remains unknown whether Lp(a), a known ASCVD risk factor, is a causal mediator of AF independent of ASCVD. We found that each 50 nmol/L (23 mg/dL) increase in Lp (a) was associated with increased risk of incident AF.

Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) is an increasingly recognized nonatherosclerotic cause of acute myocardial infarction. To assess which genes contribute to the development of SCAD, whole-exome sequencing was performed among individuals with SCAD. Rare disruptive variants were found within 10 collagen genes.

We conducted an exome-wide association study to identify rare risk variants contributing to MDD. 120,033 participants with MDD polygenic risk scores (PRS) were included. 34,761 qualifying variants were imported into the SKAT R-package to perform single variants, gene-based burden and robust burden tests with minor allele frequency (MAF)

Late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) is significantly more frequent in Hispanics than in non-Hispanic Whites. Ancestry may explain these differences across ethnic groups. We tested the association between Local Ancestry (LA) and LOAD ("admixture mapping") to identify LOAD-associated ancestral blocks.

Socioeconomic status (SES) anchors individuals in their social network layers. It remains obscure how distinct facets of SES are reflected in the architecture of the central nervous system. Individuals with higher SES showed a pattern of increased region volumes in the left brain.

Study was conducted using electronic health care records on 1 016 277 individuals from primary care practices in East London. Individuals with a diagnosis of PD were compared with controls without PD.

Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is a common cause of blindness. We assessed associations of cardiopulmonary conditions and markers with POAG. We constructed a POAG polygenic risk score using genome-wide association study statistics.

Monogenic familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) is an autosomal dominant disorder characterised by elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) concentrations. Some mutation-negative patients have a polygenic cause for elevated LDL-C due to a burden of common LDL- C-raising alleles. People of White British (WB) ancestry have a 12-single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) score. This score has yet to be evaluated in people of South Asian (SA), and Black and Caribbean (BC) ethnicities.

Caffeine-neuropathology correlations and interactions with lifestyle and genetic factors impacting caffeine metabolism and response were also tested. Caffeine intake was inconsistently associated with clinical dementia; potentially explained by cohort differences in underlying dementia etiology. Lewy bodies may link caffeine to lower risk in some persons.

Infection with SARS-CoV-2 virus impacts disadvantaged groups most. Lifestyle factors are also associated with adverse COVID-19 outcomes. We explored effect modification of socioeconomic-status (SES) on associations between lifestyle and outcomes.

PXS was associated with higher levels of clinical risk factors including BMI, systolic blood pressure, blood glucose, triglycerides, and HbA1c. In addition to predicting incident T2D, PXS and PGS were significantly and positively associated with the incidence of all 7 other chronic diseases.

 individuals with supranormal left ventricular ejection fraction (snLVEF; LVEF >70%) have increased mortality. This study aimed to determine the relationship of both snLVEf genetic risk and phenotype with survival and underdiagnosed heart failure (HF) Of 486 754 participants, the median age was 58 years, 20 069 died, and 10 088 had diagnosed HF.

Common diagnostic next-generation sequencing strategies are not optimized to identify inherited variants in genes associated with dominant neurodevelopmental disorders. Heterozygote parents are mildly or not affected, suggesting variable expressivity.

An early age at onset of major depression (AAO-MD) has been associated with more severe illness, psychosis, and suicidality. This study sought to investigate the genetic components underlying AAO- MD. We found a small but significant SNP-heritability (~6%) for the AAO -MD phenotype.

Few studies have derived dietary patterns based on intake of discretionary foods and beverages and examined associations with genetic risk and obesity. Data from 11,735 adults from the UK Biobank cohort study were used. A dietary pattern high in high-SFA and low-fiber discretionary food and beverages was associated with higher risk of obesity.

Women's reproductive factors include their age at menarche and menopause, the age at which they start and stop having children and the number of children they have. Studies that have linked these factors with disease risk have largely investigated individual reproductive factors and have not considered the genetic correlation and total interplay that may occur between them. This study aimed to investigate the relationships between eight female reproductive factors.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) prediction across more than 1,500 traits using genetic and phenotype data in the UK Biobank. We report 813 sparse PRS models with significant (p)

In a genome-wide association study of CTS, we found 53 sequence variants at 50 loci associated with the syndrome. We conclude that at least 22 genes mediate CTS risk and highlight the role of 19 CTS variants in the biology of the extracellular matrix. Anthropometric traits including height and BMI are genetically correlated with CTS.

Post-translational modifications diversify protein functions and dynamically coordinate their signalling networks. Their genetic regulation or influence on complex traits is not fully understood. We compare the genetic regulation of the same PTM of two proteins - glycosylation of transferrin and immunoglobulin G.

 Depression is linked to dementia but whether it is a risk factor or an early sign of a developing dementia remains unclear. Neuroinflammation is increasingly recognised in both depression and Alzheimer's Disease. We hypothesised that recurrent depression has adverse effects on performance in cognitive tests.

Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) assumes that diffusion measured at typical b-values (approximately 1000 s/mm 2 ) is Gaussian. Diffusion kurtosis imaging (DKI) is an extension of DTI that measures non-Gaussian diffusion (kurtosis) to better capture microenvironmental processes by incorporating additional data at a higher b-value. Using diffusion data (b-values of 1000 and 2000 s/ mm 2 ) from 700 UK Biobank participants aged 46-80, we establish a pattern of lower k Kurtosis alongside higher diffusivity among older adults.

This study included 391,366 participants of European ancestry initially free from pre-existing hypertension in the UK Biobank. Exposure to ambient air pollutants, including particulate matter (PM 2.5, PM 2. 5-10 , and PM 10 ), nitrogen dioxide (NO 2 ) and nitrogen oxides (NO X), was estimated. The associations between air pollutants and the incidence of hypertension were investigated.

Study looked at 13,602 European individuals with asthma diagnosed before 18 years old and 136,008 matched unexposed individuals without such an experience. Childhood asthma was associated with shorter attained adult height, irrespective of age at asthma diagnosis. The magnitude of height deviation in relation to asthma declined thereafter and became null after age 6.

Machine-learning algorithms can provide accurate predictions of age based on brain characteristics. There is significant variation in model accuracy reported across studies. Across subsets with different age ranges, performance metrics improve with increasing sample size. Age-bias corrected metrics indicate high accuracy, even for poorly performing models.

Alcohol misuse is a major global public health issue. The disorder is characterized by aberrant neural networks interacting with environment and genetics. Dissecting the neural substrates and functional networks that relate to longitudinal changes in alcohol use is important to elucidate therapeutic approaches. This study analyzed range of alcohol misuse in a population-based normative sample of 24,784 participants.

We examined interactions between educational attainment and genetic susceptibility on dementia risk among adults over 60 years old. A total of 174,161 participants were free of dementia at baseline. Low education attainment was significantly associated with higher dementia risk in the APOE &#949;4 carriers.

Wellbeing is an important aspect of mental health that is moderately heritable. Specific wellbeing-related variants have been identified via GWAS meta-analysis of individual questionnaire items. A multi-item within-subject index score has potential to capture greater heritability.

Studies examining cerebral asymmetries typically divide the l-R Measure (e.g., Left-Right Volume) by the L + R Measure to obtain an Asymmetry Index (AI) We used 306 global and regional brain measures provided by the UK Biobank. Removing any of these predictors changed the significance of sex differences in 33% of regions.

Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) is a disease of unknown etiology and pathogenesis. Hereditability is suggested by an increased disease risk in relatives. genome-wide association studies in ME/C FS have been limited by small sample sizes and broad diagnostic criteria.

Despite the widespread use of multivitamin/mineral supplements, the effects on cardiovascular disease (CVD) remain inconclusive. This population-based cohort study included 465,278 men and women who participated in the UK Biobank between 2006 and 2010.

The stock market is a bellwether of socio-economic changes that may directly affect individual well-being. We applied specification curve analysis to rigorously identify significant associations between the local stock market index (FTSE100) and 479,791 UK residents' mood.

Frailty is a multidimensional syndrome of decline that affects multiple systems. Although chronological age is the major risk factor, inter-individual variation in risk is not fully understood. Leucocyte telomere length (LTL), a proposed marker of biological age, has been associated with risk of many diseases. We sought to determine whether LTL is associated withrisk of frailty.

Child maltreatment is associated with asthma in adults. We examined whether lifetime major depressive disorder (MDD) or lifetime generalised anxiety disorder (GAD) mediate an association. 81 105 British adults in the UK Biobank completed a mental health survey.

Mental health research and care have yet to realize similar advances from MRI. A primary challenge has been replicating associations between inter-individual differences in brain structure or function and complex cognitive or mental health phenotypes. Such BWAS have typically relied on sample sizes appropriate for classical brain mapping.

Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a major cause of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Larger genome-wide association studies have now provided the ability to evaluate whether genetic data can help improve our ability to identify patients at high risk of PAD.

To evaluate potential diagnostic and therapeutic biomarkers for age-related macular degeneration (AMD), we identified 8433 UK Biobank participants with rare complement Factor I gene (CFI) variants. We stratified these variants by predicted gene expression and measured their association with retinal pigment epithelium-Bruch's membrane (RPE-BM) complex and retinal thicknesses.

Genome-wide association study links infant mortality rate by place and year in the United Kingdom with common genetic variants among birth cohorts in the UK Biobank. Genetic correlations are found across multiple domains, including fertility, cognition, health behaviors, and health outcomes.

Study included 471,485 individuals of European ancestry from the UK Biobank, aged 38-73 years at baseline (2006-10) Dementia was identified using inpatient records and death registers. 33 out of 63 major diseases were associated with an increased risk of dementia. Individual diseases and multimorbidity are stronger predictors of dementia in non-APOE4 carriers.

 Complex-trait genetics has advanced dramatically through methods to estimate the heritability tagged by SNPs. The models underlying many of these analyses are inadequate, and consequently many SNP-heritability results have been inaccurate.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) epitomize this type of setting. Although the GWAS marginal estimator is popular, it has been criticized for ignoring the correlation structure of genetic variants. We show that the performance of GWASmarginal estimator depends on the LD pattern.

Of 470,853 UKB participants, 4.0% had pneumonia and 0.2% had influenza during follow up. Increased consumption of coffee, tea, oily fish, and fruit at baseline were significantly and independently associated with a lower risk of future pneumonia events. After multivariable adjustment, the odds of pneumonia (p &#8804; 0.001 for all) were lower by 6-9% when consuming 1-3 cups of coffee/day.

Study looked at prevalence of phenotypes as a function of the polygenic score (PGS) across environments in the UK Biobank cohort study. Cases where polygenic influences are greater or lesser than expected are seen to be particularly pervasive for educational attainment, obesity, and metabolic condition type-2 diabetes.

DataLad-based, domain-agnostic framework suitable for reproducible data processing in compliance with open science mandates. It affords the capture of machine-actionable computational provenance records that can be used to retrace and verify the origins of research outcomes.

Triglyceride (TG)-lowering LPL variants in combination with genetic LDL-C-lowering variants are associated with reduced risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) Genetic variation in the APOA5 gene encoding apolipoprotein A-V also strongly affects TG levels.

Recent works have shown that SNP heritability-which is dominated by low-effect common variants-may not be the most relevant quantity for localizing high-effect/critical disease genes. We introduce methods to estimate the proportion of phenotypic variance explained by a given assignment of SNPs to a single gene.

ProcR locus associated with lower coronary artery disease (CAD) risk but higher venous thromboembolism (VTE) risk. PROCR-219Gly increases plasma levels of (activated) protein C through endothelial protein C receptor (EPCR) ectodomain shedding in endothelial cells.

Metabolic syndrome is a group of heritable metabolic traits that are highly associated with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) Classical interventions to T2DM include improving diet quality, increasing physical activity, and reducing smoking and alcohol consumption. It is poorly understood how the phenotypes of diabetes-related metabolic traits change with respect to lifestyle modifications at the individual level.

Genetically regulated gene expression (GReX) can be estimated using prediction models derived from large multi-omic datasets. We applied PrediXcan to impute GReX in 51,520 ancestrally diverse Population Architecture. We identified 517 associations across 47 tissues in PAGE but not UKBB 50k. Our findings call for more diversity in reference datasets of tissue-specific gene expression.

Previous studies showed that diet and gut microbiota had a correlation with sleep. We used UK Biobank genotype data to assess the potential effects of diet-gut microbiota interactions on sleep phenotypes. Insomnia and sleep duration were used as dependent variables. Significant genetic correlations were discovered between insomnia/sleep duration and dietary habits.

Study looked at changes in body composition in 3088 free-living participants, part of the UK Biobank in-depth imaging study. All participants underwent neck-to-knee MRI scans at the first imaging visit and after approximately two years. No significant changes were observed in BMI, body weight, or waist circumference over the scanning interval.

Polygenic inheritance plays a pivotal role in driving multiple sclerosis susceptibility. We developed polygenic risk scores (PRS) of multiple sclerosis and assessed associations with both disease status and severity in cohorts of European descent. Individuals within the top 10% of PRS were at higher than 5-fold increased risk in UK Biobank and 15-fold higher risk in KPNC.

Risk scores from routine blood tests can be repurposed to estimate 10-year risk of cirrhosis morbidity in the community. Genetic risk factor information to these scores only modestly improved performance.

There is strong evidence of brain-related abnormalities in COVID-191-13. It remains unknown whether the impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection can be detected in milder cases. Here we investigated brain changes in 785 participants of UK Biobank.

South Asians in general, and Asian Indians in particular, have higher risk of type 2 diabetes compared with white Europeans. The reasons for the younger age of onset in relation to obesity, beta cell function and insulin sensitivity are under-explored.

Study included data from 39 294 participants with hypertension in the UK Biobank study. During a median follow-up of 6.25 years (241 418 person-years), 1518 deaths (549 attributable to CVD) and 4933 CVD (fatal and nonfatal) incident events were registered. Compared with the lowest category of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity, the relative risks (hazard ratios and 95% CIs) of all-cause mortality for increasing categories were 0.53 (0.46-0.61)

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of mortality in people with Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) Statins reduce low-density lipoproteins and positively affect CVD outcomes. Statin type and dose have differential effects on glycaemia and risk of incident T2DM.

Heavy alcohol consumption has been associated with brain atrophy, neuronal loss, and poorer white matter fiber integrity. There is conflicting evidence on whether light-to-moderate alcohol consumption shows similar negative associations with brain structure. We examine the associations between alcohol intake and brain structure using multimodal imaging data from the UK Biobank.

Half a million adults were recruited into the UK Biobank prospective cohort study between March 2006 and October 2010. The main outcome measure was a composite primary outcome of 30-day major postoperative complications and 90-day all-cause mortality. Elevated pre-operative HbA 1c in people without diabetes may be associated with an increased risk of complications, but the association is likely confounded by end-organ comorbidity.

Genetic predisposition has been shown to contribute substantially to the age at which we die. Little is known about how lifespan is impacted by gene loss of function. Through whole-exome sequencing of 352,338 UK Biobank participants of European ancestry we assessed the relevance of protein-truncating variant (PTV) gene burden.

Seven hours of sleep per day was associated with the highest cognitive performance. Individuals who sleep between six-to-eight hours had significantly greater grey matter volume in 46 of 139 different brain regions.

On 462 063 participants of European ancestry, we characterized the relationship of 38 disease-relevant biomarkers, asthma diagnosis, ambient pollution, traffic factors, and genetic background. 30 biomarkers were in association with at least one environmental factor. Asthma diagnosis was associated with four pollutants (NO, NO 2 , PM 2.5 , and PM 10 ). The largest effect size was observed in PM 2, where a 5 &#956;g/m 3  increment of exposure was linked to a 1.52 increase in asthma diagnosis.

Mendelian randomization (MR) is a common tool for identifying causal risk factors underlying diseases. Here, we present a method, MR with automated instrument determination (MRAID), for effective MR analysis. MRAID borrows ideas from fine-mapping analysis to model an initial set of candidate single-nucleotide polymorphisms.

The impact of copy-number variations (CNVs) on complex human traits remains understudied. We called CNVs in 331,522 UK Biobank participants and performed genome-wide association studies. Total CNV burden negatively impacted 35 traits, leading to increased adiposity, liver/kidney damage.

Genetic variants in the human leukocyte antigen and killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor regions have been associated with many brain-related diseases. How they shape brain structure and function remains unclear. To identify the genetic variants in HLA  and KIR genes associated with human brain phenotypes, we performed a genetic association study of &#8764;30 000 European unrelated individuals.

Leukocyte telomere length (LTL) serves as a mitotic clock. Reduced LTL has been associated with multiple human disorders. This cohort study found that shorter LTL was associated with a small risk increase of overall mortality.

This is a prospective analysis of 437,191 UK Biobank participants (age 56.3 years, 54% female) The main exposure was self-reported alcohol consumption. Outcomes included COVID-19, infectious diseases, and pneumonia mortality.

Vitamin D levels were significantly and nonlinearly associated with lower risk of cardiovascular outcomes and all-cause mortality. The findings highlight the importance of monitoring and correcting vitamin D deficiency in the prevention of CVD and mortality among adults with prediabetes and diabetes.

The combined health impact of physical activity (PA) and air pollution on chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) remains unclear. We investigated the joint effects of habitual PA and long-term fine particulate matter (PM2.5) exposure on COPD incidence in a prospective population-based cohort.

180,642 individuals free of CVD or cancer were enrolled from 2006 to 2010 and followed up to 2018 in the UK Biobank. Information on demographics, lifestyles, and medical history was collected through a baseline touchscreen questionnaire. A total of ten single-nucleotide polymorphisms were used to calculate the genetic risk score (GRS) of trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO)

Age-related cognitive decline carries a huge personal, societal, and financial cost. A projected 152 million people worldwide will suffer from dementia by 2050. Early stages of cognitive decline are much more prevalent than dementia.

Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is associated with increased risk of pregnancy complications and adverse perinatal outcomes. GDM often reoccurs and is linked to an increase in risk of subsequent diagnosis of type 2 diabetes (T2D) To improve our understanding of the aetiological factors and molecular processes driving the occurrence of GDM, the GENetics of Diabetes In Pregnancy Consortium assembled genome-wide association studies of diverse ancestry.

Sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), testosterone and oestradiol have been associated with many diseases in observational studies. However, the causality of associations remains unestablished. Higher genetically predicted SHBG levels were associated with a reduced risk of hypertension, type 2 diabetes, diabetic complications, coronary atherosclerotic outcomes, gout and benign and malignant neoplasm of uterus.

Genome-wide proportional hazards ratio analyses were conducted in 340 318 European subjects. All-cause AFSW was genetically strongly correlated (rg = -0.68) with spherical equivalent (the measured strength of spectacle lens required to correct the refractive error) Time-to-event analyses found genome-wide significant associations at 44 independent genomic loci.

A total of 409,110 participants from the UK Biobank study, recruited between 2006 and 2010, were included. Compared with meat-eaters, vegetarians and pescatarians had a lower risk of overall, colorectal, and prostate cancer. No associations between the types of diets and prostate, breast, or lung cancers were found.

Some evidence suggests that being vegetarian may be associated with a lower risk of cancer overall. However, for specific cancer sites, the evidence is limited. We assessed associations of vegetarian and non-vegetarian diets with risks of all cancer, colorectal cancer, postmenopausal breast cancer, and prostate cancer.

Brugada syndrome (BrS) is a cardiac arrhythmia disorder associated with sudden death in young adults. With the exception of SCN5A, encoding the cardiac sodium channel NaV1.5, susceptibility genes remain largely unknown. Here we performed a genome-wide association meta-analysis comprising 2,820 unrelated cases with BrS and 10,001 controls, and identified 21 association signals at 12 loci.

Genomics-enhanced risk tools for coronary heart disease and type 2 diabetes. The risk tools integrate contemporary genome-wide polygenic risk scores with simple questionnaire-based risk factors. Without the need for blood tests or evaluation by a health professional, the risk tools provide a powerful yet simple method.

Concentrations of circulating sex hormones have been associated with a variety of diseases in women. We investigated the genetic architectures of circulating concentrations of estradiol, testosterone, and SHBG by menopausal status in women of European and African ancestry. Heterogeneity analysis identified 1 locus for testosterone (7q22.1) in the CYP3A7 gene and 1 loci that was strongly associated with concentrations of SHBG in premenopausal women only.

Polygenic scores (PGS) are important tools for carrying out genetic prediction of common diseases and disease related complex traits. Few comprehensive comparison studies have been performed to evaluate the effectiveness of PGS methods. We evaluate the prediction accuracy, computational scalability, as well as robustness and transferability.

Study included 345,794 European ancestry participants from the UK Biobank. 26.2% of the participants were former smokers, and 9.8% were current smokers. During follow-up, 1687 (0.49%) participants developed lung cancer. High genetic risk and smoking were independently associated with higher lung cancer risk.

Host genetic variants influence the susceptibility and severity of several infectious diseases. Discovery of genetic associations with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) phenotypes could help to develop new therapeutic strategies to decrease its burden. Between May 2020 and June 2021, we performed 65 genome-wide association studies.

We processed 123,662,421 primary care events from 230,096 UK Biobank (UKB) participants. We mapped 92% of Read2 and 91% of CTV3 to 1,449 and 1,490 Phecodes. UKB PheWAS using P hecodes from primary care EHR and hospitalizations replicated all (n=22) previously-reported genotype-phenotype associations.

10,033 participants ranging in age from 45 to 79 years were scanned by MRI in a single location. Photoperiod was positively associated with total amygdala volume (p) Amygdala volume has also been linked to depressed mood.

Low frequency and rare variants in RCN3 contributes blood pressure variation. Study demonstrates that focusing association analyses in linkage regions greatly reduces multiple-testing burden and improves power to identify novel rare variants.

The number of people living with obesity or who are overweight presents a global challenge. Development of effective interventions is hampered by a lack of research. We need to better understand the collective characteristics and behaviours of those who're overweight or have obesity.

A total of 386 937 participants were enrolled from 2006 to 2010 and followed up to 2018 in the UK Biobank study. The annual average air pollutant concentrations of particulate matter (PM) and nitrogen oxides (NO2 and NOx) were calculated. Healthy dietary patterns were evaluated by a healthy diet score (HDS) based on intakes of vegetables, fruit, fish, unprocessed red meat and processed meat.

Lean NAFLD may differ from NAFLd found in overweight or obese patients. We used the UK biobank to conduct a cross-sectional study.

UK Biobank (UKB) is a key contributor in mental health genome-wide association studies (GWAS) Only 31% of participants completed the Mental Health Questionnaire. We predicted generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and major depression symptoms using elastic net regression.

There is limited data on host-specific genetic determinants of susceptibility to bacterial and viral infections. Genome-wide association studies using large population cohorts can be a first step towards identifying patients prone to infectious diseases and targets for new therapies.

Nighttime Light Emission (NLE) is associated with diminished mental and physical health. We found that higher NLE associated with higher air pollution, less green space, higher economic and neighborhood deprivation, higher household poverty and higher depressed mood.

Aging is characterized by body composition alterations. Alcohol consumption may partially drive these alterations, but findings are mixed. Red wine may help protect against adipogenesis due to anti-inflammatory/eulipidemic effects. White wine may benefit bone health in older White adults.

Study included 339,902 adults without cardiovascular disease at baseline. The main exposures were four healthy lifestyle behaviours. Metabolic complications of excess adiposity were hypertension, diabetes and hyperlipidaemia. Risk was lower, but still increased for people with no metabolic complications.

Study comprised 69 185 European-ancestry UK Biobank cohort participants. 48.4% of 591 females homozygous for SLCO1B1*5 decreased function genotype had raised cholesterol. Less males had high cholesterol and the genotype effect was attenuated.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) are an increasingly available tool to refine risk prediction for cardiometabolic diseases. Favorable lifestyle behaviors might offset increased polygenic risk, but whether frequency of depressed mood stratifies PRS-associated risk is unknown. We calculated individual-level 3-million variant PRS for coronary artery disease (CAD), type 2 diabetes (T2D) and atrial fibrillation in the UK Biobank.

Cardiac function quantification from MRI is still not a fully automatic process in the clinical practice. This is partly due to the shortage of training data covering all relevant cardiovascular disease phenotypes. We propose to synthetically generate short axis CINE MRI using a generative adversarial model.

Germline mutations in DNA repair genes and KLK3 have been associated with adverse prostate cancer (PCa) outcomes in separate studies but never jointly. The objective of this study is to simultaneously assess these two types of germline mutations.

Activation of microglia in the spinal cord following peripheral nerve injury is critical for the development of long-lasting pain hypersensitivity. Apolipoprotein E (Apoe) is the top upregulated gene in spinal cordMicroglia at chronic time points after nerve injury in mice. polymorphisms in the APOE gene in humans are associated with chronic pain.

Obesity is a risk factor for both cardiovascular disease and dementia. We examined associations between obesity, including estimates of central obesity with brain gray matter (GM) volume in the UK Biobank. We found that central obesity, was associated with decreased GM volume.

National Academy of Science's 2017 Report found limited evidence that acute marijuana smoking is positively associated with an increased risk of acute myocardial infarction. No evidence to support or refute associations between any chronic effects of marijuana use and increased risk.

Air pollution may cause inflammatory and oxidative stress damage to the brain, leading to neurodegenerative disease. The association between air pollution and dementia, and modification by apolipoprotein E genotype 4 (APOE-&#949;4) has yet to be fully investigated. UK Biobank enrolled >500,000 participants with ongoing follow-up.

Case-control status does not account for the fact that not all controls may have lived through their period of risk for the disorder of interest. The age-of-onset distribution may also depend on information such as sex and birth year. Here, we present LT-FH++, an extension of the liability threshold model conditioned on family history.

Pancreatic body PDFF was different between T2DM and nondiabetics matched by body mass index. The developed segmentation's performance was no different from manual annotations. Application on type 2 diabetes subjects showed potential for assessing pancreatic disease heterogeneity.

Study included 393,690 participants without CVD at baseline measurements between March 13, 2006, and October 1, 2010, from UK Biobank. During a median follow-up of 8.93 years, we observed 10,218 incident CVD events, including 6595 myocardial infarctions (MIs) and 3906 strokes. Among participants with a poor sleep pattern, unfavorable lifestyle (per score increase) was associated with 25% (95% CI, 13% to 39%) increased risks for CVD and MI.

Genetic variants within the APOE locus may modulate Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk independently or in conjunction with APOE*2/3/4 genotypes. Identifying variants and mechanisms would importantly advance our understanding of APOE pathophysiology and provide critical guidance for AD therapies aimed at APOE.

Previous observational studies suggested that a reduction in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) or a supranormal eGFR value was associated with adverse cardiovascular risks. A previous Mendelian randomization (MR) study under the linearity assumption reported null causal effects from eG FR on myocardial infarction (MI) risks.

Previous studies have shown that marine omega-3 PUFAs (fish oil) supplements was associated with improved cognitive function. We aimed to assess the relations between use of fish oil supplements and risks of all-cause and disease-specific dementia according to the apolipoprotein E (APOE) &#949;4 dosage.

Higher educational attainment reduced genetic susceptibility to higher body mass index, smoking, atrial fibrillation and type 2 diabetes, but increased susceptibility to LDL-C and systolic blood pressure. Little evidence of effect modification was found for all other traits considered.

Study examines how alcohol intake from wine and non-wine alcoholic beverages (non-wine) in g/d are associated with all-cause, cancer, non-cancer and CVD mortality. Consumption was assessed in 354 386 participants of the UK Biobank cohort who drank alcohol at least occasionally and survived at least 2 years after baseline.

Host genetics are known to influence the gut microbiome, yet their role remains poorly understood. We performed a genome-wide association study of 207 taxa and 205 pathways representing microbial composition and function in 7,738 participants of the Dutch Microbiome Project.

The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has witnessed more than 4.5 million deaths as of the time of writing. Whether nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) increases the risk for severe COVID- 19 remains unclear. We performed large-scale TSMR analyses to examine whether there is a causal relationship between NAFLD, serum alanine aminotransferase, grade of steatosis, or fibrosis stage.

Decompensation is a hallmark of disease progression in cirrhotic patients. New Early Prediction of Decompensation score uses platelet count, albumin, and bilirubin concentration. It predicts decompensation during a 3-year follow-up in three validation cohorts.

Migraine affects over a billion individuals worldwide but its genetic underpinning remains largely unknown. Here, we performed a genome-wide association study of 102,084 migraine cases and 771,257 controls and identified 123 loci, of which 86 are previously unknown.

Assortative mating induces long range dependence across causal variants. All marker-based heritability estimators implicitly assume mating is random. We provide mathematical and simulation-based evidence.

Severe mental illnesses (SMI) including major depressive disorder (MDD), bipolar disorder (BD), and schizophrenia spectrum disorder (SSD) elevate accelerated brain aging risks. Cardio-metabolic disorders (CMD) are common comorbidities in SMI and negatively impact brain health.

Gender captures social components beyond biological sex. Assessment of gender typically relies on questionnaires which may not be available. The aim of this study is to construct a gender metric using available variables in the UK Biobank and to apply it to the study of angina diagnosis.

Maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) is an autosomal dominant form of monogenic diabetes, reported to be caused by variants in 16 genes. Concern has been raised about whether variants in BLK, KLF11, and PAX4 cause MODY. We examined variant-level genetic evidence (cosegregation with diabetes and frequency in population) for published putative pathogenic variants in these genes.

Back pain is a common and debilitating disorder with largely unknown underlying biology. We identify 41 variants at 33 loci. The most significant association (ORIDD = 0.92, P = 1.6 × 10-39) is with a 3'UTR variant in CHST3.

Few studies have explored the emerging adiposity marker A Body Shape Index (ABSI) with cancer risk. This study investigated the associations between ABSI and the incidence of cancer at 23 sites and all cancer combined.

Greater maternal adiposity before or during pregnancy is associated with greater offspring adiposity throughout childhood. We used Mendelian randomisation with polygenic risk scores (PRS) to investigate whether associations between maternal pre-/early pregnancy body mass index (BMI) and offspring adiposity from birth to adolescence are causal. We found a positive association between maternal BMI and BW, supporting a moderate causal effect.

Clinical presentation of congenital heart disease is heterogeneous, making identification of the disease-causing genes and their genetic pathways and mechanisms of action challenging. Here we identify 705 lines with cardiac arrhythmia, myocardial hypertrophy and/or ventricular dilation. Among these 705 genes, 486 have not been previously associated with cardiac dysfunction in humans.

Recently developed deep learning-based methods have the potential to provide a faster and more scalable alternative to more conventional neuroimaging analysis pipelines. These methods were also shown to have higher test-retest reliability, raising the possibility that they could also exhibit superior head motion tolerance.

BMI is a complex disease risk factor known to be influenced by genes acting via both metabolic pathways and appetite regulation. In this study, we aimed to gain insight into the phenotypic consequences of BMI-associated genetic variants. We harnessed gene expression datasets derived from subcutaneous adipose and brain tissue.

Alcohol consumption is thought to be one of the modifiable risk factors for colorectal cancer (CRC) However, the causality and mechanisms by which alcohol exerts its carcinogenic effect are unclear. We evaluated the association between alcohol consumption and CRC risk by analyzing data from 32 cohort studies and conducted two-sample Mendelian randomization analysis.

UK Biobank is a large prospective cohort, based in the UK, that has deep phenotypic and genomic data on roughly a half a million individuals. Included in this resource are data on approximately 78,000 individuals with "non-white British ancestry"

Traumatic experiences are described as the strongest predictors of major depressive disorder (MDD) Several studies indicate that body mass index (BMI) exerts a large confounding effect on both inflammation and MDD. We sought to replicate previously reported associations between these traits in a large subset of the UK Biobank. Our findings highlight the importance of controlling for both BMI and trauma when studying MDD in the context of inflammation. They also suggest that the experience of traumatic events can increase the risk forMDD.

Prospective cohort study included 477,293 UK residents aged 37-73 years. We identified 12,870 cases of cholelithiasis over a median follow-up of 8.1 years. Regular use of PPIs or H2RAs was associated with an increased risk.

Tobacco smokers have reduced Parkinson's disease (PD) risk. Some patients with PD experience constipation long before they develop mobility problems. Recently, the gut microbiome has been implicated in PD.

The complexity of people's social lives may constitute the dominating factor in the vibrancy of many individuals' environment. The neural substrates linked to social cognition appear especially susceptible when people endure periods of social isolation. Previous human social neuroscience studies have focused on the DN, while HC subfields have been studied in most detail in rodents.

Occupational exposures are important, preventable causes of COPD. We previously found an increased risk of COPd among six occupations. We aimed to build on these findings and elucidate the underlying potential causal agents to focus preventive strategies.

'Sexually antagonistic' (SA) variants contribute to variation in life-history traits and overall fitness. Theory predicts that SA variants could be enriched on the X chromosome or autosomes. But current empirical tests face two formidable challenges. We argue that the polygenic nature of SA variation and sex asymmetries in SA effects might render X-linked enrichment of SA polymorphisms unlikely.

Gut microbiome and dietary patterns have been suggested to be associated with depression/anxiety. limited effort has been made to explore the effects of possible interactions between diet and microbiome on the risks of depression and anxiety. We observed 51 common diet-gut microbiome interactions shared by both PHQ score and depression status.

Study included 72 434 individuals with 37 780 clinical variants. Of 5360 pathogenic/loss-of-function variants, 4795 (89%) were associated with an RD less than or equal to 0.05. Mean penetrance was 6.9% (95% CI, 6.0%-7.8%) for pathogenic variants and 0.85% for benign variants.

Research into the genetic architecture and shared influences with liability for mental disorders is lacking. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of total cerebellar volume. We identified 33 GWAS signals associated with total cereBellar volume, of which 6 are known to alter protein-coding gene structure.

Few studies focused on peripheral immunity and dementia. We examined the longitudinal association between incident dementia and peripheral immunity markers. The results revealed that increased innate immunity markers were associated with higher dementia risk.

The extent to which the adverse metabolic component of obesity contributes to disease is often uncertain. We aimed to use Mendelian randomisation and specific genetic variants to separately test the causal roles of higher adiposity with and without its adverse metabolic effects on diseases.

Biological age (BA) is a measure of functional capacity and prognostic of health outcomes that discriminates between individuals of the same chronological age (chronAge) 95% of the variance in chronAge is shared among clocks. One year's OCAA typically has the same effect on risk factors/10-year disease incidence as 0.09/0.25 years of chronAge.

Myasthenia gravis is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by autoantibody-mediated interference of signal transmission across the neuromuscular junction. We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) involving 1,873 patients and 36,370 healthy individuals to identify disease-associated genetic risk loci. Two other loci were discovered on 10p14 and 11q21, and the previous association signals at PTPN22, HLA-DQA1/HLA-B, and TNFRSF11A were confirmed.

Lower muscle mass and strength are risk factors for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) This study examined both the strength and pattern of the associations between these 2 physical capability markers and severe NAFLD using data from the UK Biobank study.

In high-pollution areas, physical activity may have a paradoxical effect on brain health by increasing particulate deposition in the lungs. We examined whether physical activity modifies associations of air pollution (AP) with brain volumes in an epidemiologic framework. VigPA may exacerbate associations of AP with white matter hyperintensity lesions.

The herpesviridae virus cytomegalovirus has been associated with lower cognitive function in some but not all studies. In this community-based adult sample, cytomeGalovirus was not associated with cognitive function. In adjusted interaction models, age, sex, educational attainment, and income did not moderate associations.

Polygenic scores (PGS) are commonly evaluated in terms of their predictive accuracy at the population level by the proportion of phenotypic variance they explain. We investigated the stability of PGS in European American (EUR) and African American (AFR)-ancestry individuals from the Philadelphia Neurodevelopmental Cohort and the Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development study.

Diabetes mellitus (DM) is known to be associated with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) Others have developed polygenic risk scores (PRS) associated with PDAC risk. We aimed to compare the performance of these PRS in an independent cohort.

Size at birth is known to be influenced by various fetal and maternal factors, including genetic effects. South Asians have a high burden of low birth weight and cardiometabolic diseases. Studies of common genetic variations underpinning these phenotypes are lacking.

Cerebral microbleeds (CMBs) appear as small, circular, well defined hypointense lesions of a few mm in size. Due to their small size, contrast variations and other mimics, CMBs are highly challenging to detect automatically. In this work, we aim to detect CMB candidate subjects from a larger dataset, UK Biobank, using a machine learning-based, computationally light pipeline.

Data were collected from 107,442 UK Biobank study participants aged 40 to 69 years. Myopia was defined as mean spherical equivalent (MSE) &#8804;-1 dioptre (D) Temporal changes in myopia frequency by birth cohort and associations with environmental factors were analysed.

Breast (BCa) and prostate (PrCa) cancer are the first and second most common types of cancer in women and men, respectively. We used Mendelian randomisation to assess the causal effect of body mass index (BMI), body fat percentage (BFP), waist circumference (WC), hip circumference (HC), and waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) on BCa and PrCa risk. We found that increased BMI, WC and HC decreased the risk of breast cancer.

Fat content and volume of liver and pancreas are associated with risk of diabetes in observational studies. We conducted a Mendelian randomization study to examine causality of such associations. Pancreatic fat was associated with type 2 diabetes but not type 1 diabetes.

Sleep and circadian phenotypes are associated with several diseases. Study aimed to investigate whether sleep and circadian Phenotypes were causally linked with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)-related outcomes.

Previous studies have shown reduced cardiovascular risk with increasing high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels. However, recent data in the general population have shown increased risk of adverse outcomes at very high concentrations of HDL-C. We aimed to study the gender-specific relation between very high HDL- C levels and adverse cardiovascular outcomes and the genetic basis.

We propose an effective two-stage pipeline for detecting and synthesising absent slices in both the apical and basal region. The imputation network is based on a dedicated conditional generative adversarial network (GAN) that helps retain key visual cues and fine structural details. The proposed approach can improve the reliability of high-throughput image analysis in large-scale population studies.

Polygenic scores (PGS) for blood cell traits have potential clinical utility in disease risk prediction and prevention. We find that PGSs designed using common machine learning methods EN and BR show improved prediction.

Refractive errors are associated with a range of pathological conditions, such as myopic maculopathy and glaucoma, and are highly heritable. Studies of missense and putative loss of function (pLOF) variants identified via whole exome sequencing (WES) offer the prospect of directly implicating potentially causative disease genes.

Of 378,051 unrelated individuals of European ancestry, 2,402 were classified as having experienced severe COVID-19. Exposures included sex, cardiometabolic risk factors [obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2D), tested jointly], and multiple deprivation index. Five independent variants reached genome-wide significance.

Malignant gliomas are the most common primary adult brain tumors. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequence variation has been linked with certain cancers. Research on glioma is lacking.

Serum liver enzymes (alanine aminotransferase [ALT], aspartate aminOTransferases [AST], &#955;-glutamyl transferase [GGT] and alkaline phosphatase [ALP) are the leading biomarkers to measure liver injury. We conducted a phenome-wide association study to identify disease phenotypes associated with genetically predicted liver enzymes based on the UK Biobank cohort.

It is well-accepted that both environment and genetic factors contribute to the development of mental disorders (MD) Few genetic studies have used time-to-event data analysis to identify susceptibility genetic variants associated with MD. SPACOX approach was used to identify the susceptibility loci for MD. We also observed that multiple environment factors could influence the association between susceptible loci and MD.

Cognitive resilience is the ability to withstand the negative effects of stress on cognitive functioning. The UK Biobank does not have measurements of the same cognitive phenotype at distal time points. We used education years (EY) as a proxy for past cognitive performance.

The human protein transmembrane protease serine type 2 (TMPRSS2) plays a key role in SARS-CoV-2 infection. It is required to activate the virus' spike protein, facilitating entry into target cells. We hypothesized that naturally-occurring TMPR SS2 human genetic variants may modulate the severity of SARS. We focused on the only common TMPRss2 non-synonymous variant predicted to be damaging.

The UK Biobank study recruited > 500,000 participants between 2006 and 2010. Analyses included > 370,000 middle-aged and older adults with a median follow-up of 11.75 (IQR = 1.4) years. Compared to individuals with excellent self-rated health and favourable health status, individuals with other combinations of self- rated and objective health status had a greater mortality risk.

Inflammatory bowel disease is associated with an increased risk of skin cancer. The aims of this study were to determine whether IBD susceptibility variants are also associated with skin cancer susceptibility and if such risk is augmented by immune-suppressive therapy.

Risk-taking differs between humans, and is associated with personality measures of impulsivity and sensation-seeking. To analyse the brain systems involved, self-report risk-taking, resting state functional connectivity, and related behavioral measures were analyzed in 18,740 participants of both sexes from the UK Biobank.

The minor G risk allele in the common melatonin receptor gene (MTNR1B, rs10830963) has been associated with an increased risk of myocardial infarction among patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) activating the melatonin receptors 1B through melatonin has been shown to promote cell proliferation, which could be hypothesized to increase cancer risk.

Major depression (MD) is a heterogeneous disorder; however, the extent to which genetic factors distinguish MD patient subgroups remains uncertain. This study sought evidence for genetic heterogeneity in MD. Using UK Biobank cohort, the authors defined 16 MD subtypes within eight comparison groups.

Dental caries, periodontal disease, stomatitis, and the related inflammatory burden increase AD risk. Oral pathology and the oral microbiome correlate with POAG vulnerability. Prostaglandin is a possibility.

Cardiometabolic disorders (CMD) arise from a constellation of features such as increased adiposity, hyperlipidemia, hypertension and compromised glucose control. Many genetic loci have shown associations with individual CMD-related traits, but no investigations have focused on simultaneously identifying loci showing associations across all domains. We identified four loci associated with risk across all seven CMD traits in the UK Biobank.

Systolic and diastolic blood pressure are highly correlated modifiable risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD) We report here a bidirectional Mendelian Randomization (MR) and horizontal pleiotropy analysis of S/DBP summary statistics. We construct a composite genetic risk score (GRS) by including pleiotropic variants. The composite GRS captures greater (1.11-3.26 fold) heritability for BP traits.

The effects of gene-by-environment (G×E) interactions on complex diseases are significant, especially the superimposed effects of multiple environmental factors. Research on the multi-environments-gene interactions of anxiety, depression, and self-harm is still limited. This study included white individuals (N = 66,041-74,482) from the UK Biobank.

Socioeconomic status and air pollution have independent effects on the risk of testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Green space and natural environment space in the proximity of people's homes may mediate the effect of air pollution.

Over 76 genetic loci (comprising 90 SNPs) have been associated with PD by the most recent GWAS meta-analysis. Most of these PD-associated variants are located in non-coding regions of the genome. We hypothesised that PD- associated genetic variants modulate disease risk through tissue-specific expression quantitative trait loci effects.

Populations at increased risk of dementia need to be identified for well-powered trials of preventive interventions. Weight loss, which often occurs in pre-clinical dementia, could identify a population at sufficiently high dementia risk.

Extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost) outperformed traditional logistic regression in predicting myocardial infarction (MI) in a large cohort. The UK Biobank is a population-based prospective cohort including 502 506 volunteers with active consent.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in late onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) do not capture the synergistic effects among multiple genetic variants and lack good specificity. We applied tree-based machine learning algorithms (MLs) to discriminate LOAD and age-matched unaffected subjects in UK Biobank with single nucleotide variants (SNVs) from AD studies. MLs prioritized a set of SNVs located in genes  PVRL2 ,  TOMM40 ,  APOE , and  APOC1.

Hearing loss was recently identified as a modifiable risk factor for dementia. Potential mechanisms explaining this relationship are unknown. Study examined longitudinal change in resting-state fMRI functional connectivity and gray matter volume in individuals who developed a hearing impairment.

Low portability of polygenic scores (PGSs) across global populations is a major concern that must be addressed before PGSs can be used for everyone in the clinic. PGS accuracy has been shown to decay as a function of the genetic distance between the training and test cohorts.

We studied the UK Biobank prospective cohort (n = 324,486) for observational analysis with poor handgrip strength or self-reported slow walking pace as the exposures. The functional sarcopenia status are targetable causative factors for interventions aiming to reduce risks of cardiovascular disease or mortality.

Both genetic variants and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) contribute to the risk of incident severe coronavirus disease (COVID-19) Whether genetic risk is the same regardless of preexisting COPD is unknown. polygenic risk score can be effectively used in screening for high-risk populations.

Previous studies have reported inconsistent associations between chronic kidney disease (CKD) and dementia. This study compared the performance of different measures of calculating estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR)

Social isolation is prevalent in individuals with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) Its potential health impact on IBD prognosis has not been quantitatively well examined. We leveraged data of 486,014 participants (including 5791 with IBD) from UK Biobank. We measured social isolation by the frequency of meeting family/friends, leisure and social activity.

Age-standardised prevalence and deaths for dementia have been reported to be higher in women compared with men. The role of female-specific endocrine and reproductive events in modulating dementia risk needs to be further clarified.

Auditory deficits are increasingly recognised following aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. Central hearing impairment, also known as auditory processing disorder (APD), often coexists with cognitive deficits. The aim of this study was to assess auditory outcome following aSAH and its relationship with cognition.

Inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) response among patients with asthma is influenced by genetics. biologically actionable insights based on associations have not been found. Various glucocorticoid response omics data sets are available to interrogate their biological effects.

High body mass index (BMI) has implications for clinical practice. We tested the hypotheses that high BMI causally influences heart failure incidence and mortality. We studied 106 121 individuals from the Copenhagen General Population Study.

Grip strength has been associated with increased risk of some site-specific cancers. The ability of grip strength to predict other diseases may be affected by whether it is expressed in absolute or relative terms, but the evidence for cancer is scarce.

Transthyretin (TTR) is the precursor of the fibrils that compromise organ function in hereditary and sporadic systemic amyloidoses (ATTR) RNA-interference and anti-sense therapeutics targeting TTR  hepatic transcription have been shown to reduce TTR amyloids formation. We leveraged genetic and phenotypic information from the UK Biobank and transcriptomic profiles from the Genotype-Tissue Expression project to test the association of genetically regulated TTR gene expression with 7149 traits.

Many young women with endometriosis go undetected for an extended period, which may lead to pain sensitization. Clinical tools to better identify candidates for laparoscopy-guided diagnosis are urgently needed. There is growing interest in using genetics as part of the clinical risk assessment.

Delirium is a neurocognitive disorder characterized by an abrupt decline in attention, awareness, and cognition after surgical/illness-induced stressors on the brain. Electrocardiogram data were examined in 38,740 middle- to older-aged UK Biobank participants. Low HRR was equivalent to being 6 years older, a current smoker, or &#8805;3 additional cardiovascular disease risks.

High bone mineral density (BMD) is a risk factor for osteoarthritis (OA) It is unclear whether this represents a causal effect or shared aetiology and whether these relationships are body mass index (BMI)-independent. We performed bidirectional Mendelian randomization (MR) to uncover the causal pathways.

There is conflicting data on the effect of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) on bone mineral density (BMD) and fracture risk. Recent genetic data suggest that men may also carry genetic risk factors for PCOS; the associations of these factors with parameters of bone health remains unknown. We aimed to investigate if the genetic risk of PCOS is associated with BMD and fracturerisk in women and men in the UK Biobank dataset.

Heart disease remains the leading cause of death worldwide. Increased blood lipid levels are heritable risk factors of cardiovascular disease. Most previous GWAS4-23 have been conducted in European ancestry populations. We find that increasing diversity rather than studying additional individuals of European ancestry results in substantial improvements.

Excess liver fat, called hepatic steatosis, is a leading risk factor for end-stage liver disease and cardiometabolic diseases. It often remains undiagnosed in clinical practice because of the need for direct imaging assessments. We developed an abdominal MRI-based machine-learning algorithm to accurately estimate liver fat from 4,511 middle-aged UK Biobank participants.

Past-oriented rumination and future-oriented worry are two aspects of perseverative negative thinking related to the neuroticism endophenotype and associated with depression and anxiety. Genetic associations for worry did not implicate specific biological processes, while past- oriented rumination had a more specific genetic background. Biological pathways leading to rumination appeared to differ according to folate intake.

Study aimed to identify genes/proteins involved in determining fat distribution. PLIN1, PDE3B, ACVR1C and PLIN4 genes were found to have beneficial effects. INSR LoF is associated with lower TG and HDL levels but may increase the risk of type 2 diabetes.

Identifying genes underlying memory function will help characterize cognitively resilient and high-risk declining subpopulations. We identified DCDC2 gene significantly associated with episodic memory among non-carriers of APOE &#949;4 (N = 24,941)

Many predictive models exist that predict risk of common cardiometabolic conditions. Most models do not include genetic risk scores and do not distinguish between clinical risk requiring medical or pharmacological interventions and pre-clinical risk. In this study, we developed, validated, and compared the performance of three decision rule algorithms.

An observational association between nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and kidney function impairment has been reported. We aimed to investigate the causal effects from NAFLD on estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) The eGFR outcome was assessed in individuals of white British ancestry from the UK Biobank (N = 321 405)

Women experience major depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) approximately twice as often as men. Estrogen is thought to contribute to sex differences in these disorders. Reduced estrogen is also known to be a key driver of menopause symptoms.

Proton pump inhibitor (PPI) users had a 16% higher risk of stroke than non-users. The absolute effect of PPI use on stroke increased with the baseline Framingham Stroke Risk Score. Physicians should exercise caution when prescribing PPIs.

Genotype-by-environment interaction (GxE) studies probe heterogeneity in response to risk factors or interventions. We expand the traditional GxE model to directly model genetic and environmental moderation of the dispersion of the outcome. We find that changes in the penetrance of a genome-wide polygenic score for BMI across birth year are partly representative of a more general pattern of expanding BMI variation across generations.

We performed genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for hearing loss-related traits in the UK Biobank (N = 362,396) We selected a high confidence set of ten hearing-associated gene products for staining in human cochlear samples. Results suggest common genetic variation to influence structural resilience to damage.

The association between inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and dementia remains uncertain. We aim to investigate whether IBD is associated with higher dementia risk. Using multivariable Cox regression models, we analyzed the onset of all-cause dementia among 497,775 participants.

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is characterized by ovulatory dysfunction and hyperandrogenism. For every 1 SD increase in the PCOS PRS, men had increased odds of obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, and marked androgenic alopecia.

Study looked at 200,643 individuals from the UK Biobank. Cumulative incidence by age 70 years among the nonheterozygotes across PRS strata ranged from 9% to 32% for breast cancer and prostate cancer, respectively. Among the PV heterozygotes it ranged from 20% to 48% in moderate-risk genes.

Psychotic-like experiences (PLEs) are risk factors for the development of psychiatric conditions like schizophrenia. As PLEs have been related to alterations in both white matter and cognition, we investigated whether cognition (g-factor and processing speed) mediates the relationship.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified germline variants influencing the risk of developing colorectal cancer. There has been limited examination of the possible role of inherited variation as a determinant of patient outcome. We performed a GWAS for overall survival (OS) in 1926 patients with advanced CRC from the COIN and COIN-B clinical trials.

We identified 10,674 genetic associations for 3892 plasma proteins to create a cis-anchored gene-protein-disease map of 1859 connections. This proteo-genomic map provides a framework to connect etiologically related diseases.

Accelerometer data collected from 103 712 UK Biobank participants over a period of 7 days. A total of 3172 cases of CVD were reported during a mean follow-up period of 5.7 (+/-0.49) years. An age- and sex-controlled base analysis found that sleep onset time of 10:00 p.m.-10:59 p.M. was associated with the lowest CVD incidence.

Researchers have long investigated a hypothesized interaction between genetic risk and stressful life events in the etiology of depression. We conducted a genome-wide by environment interaction study (GWEIS) in 18,532 patients with depression from hospital-based settings and 20,184 population controls. Results: The GWEIS in the iPSYCH2012 sample yielded three novel, genome- wide-significant loci located in the ABCC1 gene.

The state of somatic energy stores in metazoans is communicated to the brain, which regulates key aspects of behaviour, growth, nutrient partitioning and development. We found that humans who carry loss-of-function mutations in MC3R have a later onset of puberty. Mice lacking Mc3r had delayed sexual maturation and an insensitivity of reproductive cycle length to nutritional perturbation.

Stroke is the leading cause of death and long-term disability worldwide. Previous genome-wide association studies identified 51 loci associated with stroke (mostly ischemic) and its subtypes among predominantly European populations. We used whole-genome sequencing in ancestrally diverse populations from the Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine (TOPMed) Program.

Every 1,000 units/km2 increment in residential density within a 1-Km network catchment was independently associated with a 2.8% (odds ratio: 1.028, p = 0.0058) and 11.4% (or 1.114, p.114) increase in loneliness.

 Observational studies have suggested that sleep and circadian disturbances are potentially modifiable risk factors for low bone mineral density (BMD) This study aimed to replicate the findings by examining observational association of sleep traits with low estimated BMD. It also examined whether these associations were causal by using Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses.

Both genetic and cardiovascular factors contribute to the risk of developing heart failure (HF) Whether cardiovascular health metrics (ICVHMs) offset the genetic association with incident HF remains unclear.

Male androgenetic alopecia (AGA) has been implicated as a putative risk factor in severe COVID-19. Research suggests that androgen signalling, which plays a central role in AGA aetiology, promotes SARS-CoV-2 infection.

Brain age can be estimated using different Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) modalities including diffusion MRI. Limbic tracts based model reached the highest accuracy with a Mean Absolute Error (MAE) of 5.08.

Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is present in multiple copies in human cells. We evaluated cross-sectional associations of whole blood mtDNA copy number (CN) with several cardiometabolic disease traits in 408,361 participants of multiple ancestries. Age showed a threshold association with mtDNA CN: among younger participants (P  = 0.0014) versus a 0.14 s.d. lower level of mt DNA CN ( P  = 1.82 × 10 -13 ) among older participants.

Phenotypic and genetic relationships between migraine and lipoprotein subfractions. There was a significant phenotypic association (odds ratio 1.27 [95% confidence interval 1.12-1.44]) and a significant genetic correlation at 0.18 ( p  = 0.001) Between migraine and triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (TRLPs) concentration.

A total of 8,159 participants from the UK Biobank with MRI scans suitable for CMB analysis were included. One or more definite CMBs were detected in 572 (7.0%) participants. Hypertension, smoking, and alcohol consumption were associated with deep C MBs, but not with lobar CMB's.

Type 2 diabetes is associated with increased risks of cognitive dysfunction and brain abnormalities. The extent to which risk factor modification can mitigate these risks is unclear. We investigated the associations between incident dementia and cognitive performance among individuals with type 2 diabetes.

The relationship between asthma and coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) risk is not clear and may be influenced by level of airway obstruction. We aimed to investigate COVID- 19 risk in people with asthma. We used UK Biobank data from all participants tested for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronav virus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)

Platelet count (PLT) and mean platelet volume (MPV) are highly heritable quantitative traits. Hundreds of genetic signals previously identified, mostly in European ancestry populations. We utilize whole genome sequencing (WGS) from NHLBI's Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine initiative.

Study looked at 403,187 participants from UK Biobank. Healthy sleep pattern was defined by chronotype, sleep duration, insomnia, snoring, and daytime sleepiness. Weighted genetic risk score for atrial fibrillation was calculated.

The neurotropic protozoan Toxoplasma gondii has been associated with cognition and several neuropsychiatric diseases including schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Findings have been mixed, however, with some studies reporting positive associations and others finding no associations. We used data from the UK Biobank and the National Health and Examination Survey (NHANES) to investigate the association.

Accurate risk assessment is critical in clinical decision-making. Building a new model for the target cohort would be ideal but costly. Existing methods have been proposed to recalibrate the model. We develop a weighted estimating-equation approach.

Previous evidence suggests that coffee might be related to dementia. Little is known about coffee and dementia in individuals with elevated genetic susceptibility for dementia. Coffee intake was assessed at baseline and included total, instant, ground, and decaffeinated coffee. Heavy coffee consumption was associated with a higher risk of AD.

Study looked at relationship between visual impairment (VI) and dementia in the UK Biobank Study. Found VI was associated with increased risk of dementia, with progressively greater risk among those with worse visual acuity.

The association between circulating cholesterol and triglyceride levels and ovarian cancer risk remains unclear. Data from two large cohorts in the United States and United Kingdom suggest that total cholesterol levels may be inversely associated with ovarian cancer.

We identify 74 statistically significant gene-disease associations across 27 genes. Seven of these conditions have a positive predictive value (PPV) of at least 30% in both cohorts. The addition of GCK, HBB, PKD1, and MIP rare variants into genetic screening programs would reach an additional 0.21% of participants.

Genotype imputation is widely used in genetic studies to boost the power of GWAS. However, the uncertain nature of imputed genotypes can cause bias in the downstream analysis. We showed that the imputation accuracy is diminished if the real genotypes contain minor alleles.

The link between cardiometabolic and psychiatric illness has long been attributed to human behaviour. Recent research highlights shared biological mechanisms. The ASTN2 locus has been previously implicated in psychiatric and cardiometric traits.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a complex disease with a late onset and is characterized by the progressive loss of muscular and respiratory functions. We found 84 SNPs associated with 46 genes that are involved in different pathways including: "Ca 2+  activated K +  channels"

SGLT2 inhibitors block renal glucose reabsorption. This study aimed to identify genetic variants mimicking S GLT2i to further our understanding of the potential underlying biological mechanisms. Using the UK Biobank resource, we identified 264 SNPs located in the SLC5A2 gene. None of the variants met these criteria.

Glucosamine shows anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer benefits with minimal adverse effects. We aimed to explore the relationship between use of glucosamine and risk of lung cancer and lung cancer mortality based on data from the large-scale nationwide prospective UK Biobank cohort study.

Copy number variants (CNVs) include deletions or multiplications spanning genomic regions. duplications and triplications of SNCA have been shown to cause forms of Parkinson's disease. We performed a systematic analysis of CNVs in a Turkish dementia cohort.

Despite advances, understanding the protective role of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) &#949;2 allele in Alzheimer's disease remains elusive. We examined associations of TOMM40 and APOE variants with AD in a sample of 2862 AD-affected and 169,516 AD-unaffected non-carriers of the & #949;4 allele. Association of men with AD is 38% more beneficial when it is accompanied by a combination of these variants.

Study aimed to investigate the association between individual and combinations of macronutrients with premature death, CVD and dementia. Data were utilised from a prospective cohort of 120 963 individuals (57 % women) within the UK Biobank. Sex differences were investigated.

US practice guidelines now recognize South Asian ancestry as an important risk-enhancing factor. The magnitude of enhanced risk within the context of contemporary clinical care, the extent to which it is captured by existing risk estimators, and its potential mechanisms warrant additional study.

Large-scale human exome sequencing can identify rare protein-coding variants with a large impact on complex traits such as body adiposity. We sequenced the exomes of 645,626 individuals from the United Kingdom, the United States, and Mexico. We identified 16 genes with an exome-wide significant association with BMI. Inhibition of GPR75 may provide a therapeutic strategy for obesity.

Age at first sexual intercourse and age at first birth have implications for health and evolutionary fitness. We identify 371 single-nucleotide polymorphisms, 11 sex-specific, with a 5-6% polygenic score prediction. Signals are driven by the genetics of reproductive biology and externalising behaviour, with key genes related to follicle stimulating hormone (FSHB), implantation and infertility.

We use UK Biobank data to train predictors for 65 blood and urine markers such as HDL, LDL, lipoprotein A, glycated haemoglobin, etc. from SNP genotype. For example, our Polygenic Score (PGS) predictor correlates &#8764;0.76 with lipop Protein A level, which is highly heritable and an independent risk factor for heart disease.

Evidence on the effect of ambient air pollution on vitamin D is limited. This study aimed to examine the association of air pollution exposure with serum levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) A total of 448,337 subjects were included in this analysis. All analyzed air pollutants were negatively associated with serum vitamin 25OHD levels.

One of the major challenges in the post-genomic era is elucidating the genetic basis of human diseases. In recent years, studies have shown that polygenic risk scores can estimate individual risk for common diseases. We present here a sex-specific integrated approach that combines PRS with additional measurements and age to define a new risk score.

Study looked at 10-year fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk in individuals without previous CVD or diabetes aged 40-69 years in Europe. Predicted CVD risk varied several-fold across European regions.

 partial volume effect (PVE) confounds the estimation of perfusion into a specific tissue of interest such as gray or white matter. This confound occurs because the image voxels contain a mixture of tissues with disparate perfusion properties. We conclude that there is sound theoretical motivation for the use of PVEc alongside conventional, 'uncorrected', images.

Excess adiposity has been linked with various cancers, but association between body composition and some cancers remains unclear. We investigated associations of body composition with risk of overall cancer and major site-specific cancers in a prospective cohort of 454 079 cancer-free participants from UK-Biobank.

Pneumonia is a respiratory condition with complex etiology. Host genetic variation is thought to contribute to individual differences in susceptibility and symptom manifestation. Here, we analyze pneumonia data from the UK Biobank and FinnGen. We identify two independent loci on chromosome 15 to be associated with pneumonia.

AlphaMissense was shown to have good performance using benchmarks based on variants causing severe disease and on functional assays. Although AlphaMissense produced the highest SLP on average across genes, it produced the maximum SLP for only 4 genes. The marked inconsistency across genes means that it is difficult to decide on an optimal method of analysis.

The extent to which this diet supports metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) has not yet been assessed. This study aimed to investigate the association between the EAT-Lancet diet and risk of MASLD and its severity.

Liver oncogenesis is accompanied by discernible protein changes in the bloodstream. By employing plasma proteomic profiling, we can delve into the molecular mechanisms of liver cancer and pinpoint potential biomarkers. We identified 193 proteins with notable differential levels between the groups. MR analysis offered a compelling negative association between apolipoprotein B (APOB) and liver cancer.

Retinal artery occlusion (RAO) is positively correlated with acute ischemic stroke (IS) and results in severe visual impairment. This study aims to perform integrated analysis using UK Biobank plasma proteome data of RAO and IS to identify potential targets and preventive drugs.

Triglyceride-glucose (TyG) index is an emerging surrogate indicator of insulin resistance. It has been demonstrated as a risk factor for various cardiovascular diseases including coronary syndrome, in-stent restenosis, and heart failure. Study included 420,292 participants without baseline AD/AA from the large-scale prospective UK Biobank cohort.

Few studies have accounted for dynamic transitions between AF and dementia. Frequent napping was associated with a 1.17-fold AF risk. Genetic predisposition significantly modified associations between napping and AF.

Population-based cohort study using data from the UK Biobank. Study included 181,058 women of white ethnicity born in England between 1937 and 1970. 1131 had an MS diagnosis.

Pulmonary embolism causes a substantial burden of morbidity and mortality. Evidence has suggested an association of clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) with the risk of arterial thromboembolism. We performed a community-based cohort study including 464,417 individuals with available whole exome sequencing (WES) data.

Cross-sectional study included UK Biobank participants with complete data (2006-2010) for analysis. Glaucoma patients were older and had a higher percentage of males and a higher mean IOP compared to controls.

8,024 individuals with pre-existing CVD from the UK Biobank had their PA measured using wrist-worn accelerometers over a 7-day period in 2013-2015. During an average of 6.8 years of follow-up, 691 deaths (273 from cancer and 219 from CVD) were recorded. An inverse non-linear association was found between PA duration and all-cause mortality risk.

Phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) analysis was conducted to map the association of genetically predicted smoking status with 1,549 phenotypes. Sickle cell anemia and type 2 diabetes exhibited the most significant SNPs. Study affirms causal relationships between smoking and obstructive chronic bronchitis, cancer of the bronchus, peripheral vascular disease, emphysema, pneumococcal pneumonia, chronic airway obstruction.

Study aimed to investigate the association between cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection and five neurodegenerative diseases. Study included white British individuals who underwent CMV testing in the UK Biobank from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2021. Results showed that CMV infection did not affect the risk of developing AD.

Physical activity (PA) can attenuate the impact of genetic susceptibility to these traits. We aimed to investigate whether higher PA modify genetic impact on liver-related traits in the UK Biobank cohort. PA was self-reported, while magnetic resonance images were used to estimate liver fat and liver volume. Association between GRSLF and liver fat was not different among lower. PA did not modify the effect of GRSlF and GRSLV on MASLD or CLD.

Individualized phenotypic prediction based on structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an important goal in neuroscience. Prediction performance increases with larger samples, but small-scale datasets with fewer than 200 participants are often unavoidable. We have previously proposed a " meta-matching" framework to translate models trained from large datasets to improve the prediction of new unseen phenotypes.

Metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease is a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD) This study assesses the association between leisure-time physical activity, sedentary behavior, and CVD risk among patients with the disease. High physical activity levels were linked to a significantly lower risk of CVD.

The relationship between serum uric acid (SUA) levels and brain-related health remains uncertain. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between SUA levels and some neurodegenerative disorders and brain structure.

Lifestyle factors or air pollution factors (LAFs below) are well-established. It is unclear the influences of LAFs on the trajectory of IHD and COPD multimorbidity (referred as ICM below) Study investigated influences of high-risk factors including current smoking or quitting due to illness or physician's advice.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer mortality worldwide. A polygenic risk score (PRS) quantifies an individual's genetic risk of a condition. Existing PRS for CRC have so far been used to stratify asymptomatic populations. An integrated risk model combining PRS, age, sex, and patient-reported symptoms was predictive of CRC development.

 UV exposure inversely associated with all-cause, cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cancer mortality. Solarium users were also at a lower risk of non-CVD/non-cancer mortality. The benefits of UV exposure may outweigh the risks in low-sunlight countries.

Modeling the way brain activity dynamically unfolds can add important information to our understanding and characterisation of individual cognitive traits. One approach is to extract features from models of brain network dynamics to predict individual traits. These predictions are susceptible to variability due to factors such as variation in model estimation induced by the choice of hyperparameters.

Study included 413,630 participants without bone fractures at baseline in the UK Biobank study between 2006 and 2010. Results indicate that physical pre-frailty and frailty are related to higher risks of bone fractures. Such association was more pronounced among those with longer sedentary behavior time.

The associations between cardiovascular disease (CVD) and multiple psychiatric disorders and suicide attempt have not been investigated clearly. We conducted a matched cohort study involving 63 923 patients who were first hospitalized with a CVD diagnosis between 1997 and 2020. Analyses stratified by polygenic risk score revealed little impact of genetic predisposition to studied psychiatric conditions on observed links.

High-proportion spliced-in (hiPSI) titin truncating variant (TTNtv) carriers have a higher risk of atrial fibrillation and heart failure. The role of cardiovascular risk factors in modifying the risk of these outcomes attributed to hiPSI TTNtv carriers is unknown.

The study included 453 602 participants from the UK Biobank. Childhood body size at the age of 10 years was collected through a questionnaire. Adulthood body size was assessed using body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC), waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) and fat-free mass index.

Open-source model can simulate interventions for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) It incorporated the cumulative effects of risk factors (e.g., cholesterol-years or blood pressure-years) to enhance health economic modelling in settings where clinical trials are not possible.

Parkinson's disease is highly heterogeneous across disease symptoms, clinical manifestations and progression trajectories. Despite knowledge gleaned from genetics analysis, dysregulated proteome mechanisms stemming from genetic aberrations remain underexplored. Proteogenomic analysis identified 577 proteins that enrich for Parkinson's disease-related pathways.

Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) affects approximately 20%-30% of the general population and is linked to high-caloric western style diet. There are little data that specific nutrients might help to prevent steatosis. Increased dietary Mn intake was associated with a lower likelihood of MRI-diagnosed steats.

The role of circulating polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in preventing liver cirrhosis complications remains unclear. Between 2006 and 2010, 273,834 UK Biobank participants with plasma PUFA quantification data were enrolled and followed up until October 31, 2022. Total plasma PUFAs, omega-3 PUF as, docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), omega-6 PUFas, and linoleic Acid (LA) were inversely associated with the risk.

The effects of HLA genetic variation on the expression of 2940 plasma proteins across 45,330 Europeans in the UK Biobank are examined. HLA-I and II affected proteins expressed in similar cell types but in different pathways of both adaptive and innate immunity.

Conventional GWAS for quantitative traits are based on simplified regression models modeling the conditional mean of a phenotype as a linear function of genotype. We draw attention to an alternative, lesser known approach, namely quantile regression. Quantile regression can be applied efficiently at biobank scale.

Steatotic liver disease (SLD) is characterized by excessive accumulation of lipids in the liver. It is associated with elevated risk of hepatic and cardiometabolic diseases, as well as mental disorders such as depression. Previous studies revealed global gray matter reduction in SLD.

 Selection can cause bias in a given analysis if the outcome is related to selection (conditional on the other variables in the model) We propose methods to detect selection bias in genetic studies. We examine the use of four hypothesis tests to identify induced associations between genetic variants in the selected sample. We evaluate these approaches in Monte Carlo simulations.

Maternal smoking during pregnancy (MSDP) is significantly linked to the short- or long-term health of offspring. Little research has examined whether MSDP affect the aging rate of offspring, says study.

The plasma proteome can mediate associations between periodontal disease (Pd) and brain white matter integrity (WMI) We screened 5089 UK Biobank participants aged 40-70 years for poor oral health problems (POHP) POHP was more prevalent among men (12.3% vs. 9.6%) and was associated with lower WMI on most metrics, in a sex-specific manner.

Incomplete Hippocampal Inversion (IHI), sometimes called hippocampal malrotation, is an atypical anatomical pattern of the hippocampus found in about 20% of the general population. IHI has been associated with several brain disorders (epilepsy, schizophrenia) However, these studies were based on small samples.

Ovarian cancer is characterized by late-stage diagnoses and poor prognosis. We aimed to identify factors that can inform prevention and early detection of ovarian cancer. Greater parity and ever-use of oral contraception were associated with lower ovarian cancer risk.

A favorable lifestyle (6-10 healthy factors; 46.4%) was associated with a 36% lower risk of multisystem sequelae. Risk reductions spanned all 10 organ systems, including cardiovascular, coagulation, metabolic, gastrointestinal, kidney, mental health, musculoskeletal, respiratory disorders.

Patients treated with kidney replacement therapy experience a 1.5 to 2-fold increased risk of cancer and cancer mortality. Whether this excess risk extends to people with earlier stages of chronic kidney disease is unclear. This study explored the potentially causal relationship between reduced kidney function and cancer.

Cataract is a leading cause of blindness worldwide. Little is known about sex differences in cataracts. This study aimed to explore the relationships between key health risk factors and the incidence of cataract.

A total of 72,800 participants with accelerometer data and free of mental disorders from the UK Biobank were analyzed. Participants with chronic pain had a higher rate of incident overall mental disorders. Increased sedentary behavior and reduced moderate-to-vigorous physical activity caused by chronic pain both increased the risk of mental disorder.

A growing research body supports the connection between neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), and traffic-related air pollution (TRAP) However, the underlying mechanisms are not well understood. A deeper investigation of TRAP effects on hippocampal volume (HV), a major biomarker of Neurodegeneration, may help clarify these mechanisms.

 Penetrance is the probability that an individual with a pathogenic genetic variant develops a specific disease. Knowing the penetrance of variants for monogenic disorders is important for counseling of individuals. Until recently, estimates of penetrance have largely relied on affected individuals and their at-risk family members being clinically referred for genetic testing.

Dysbetalipoproteinemia (DBL) is a combined dyslipidemia associated with an increased risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases. Several algorithms have been proposed to screen DBL. This work compared the diagnostic performances of nine algorithms including a new one.

Previous studies have reported inconsistent associations between platelet count (PLT) and cancer survival. We conducted a cohort study using the UK Biobank and a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis. PLT levels were measured prior to cancer diagnosis.

Hospital-treated infectious disease was associated with a greater risk of lung cancer. The impact of lower respiratory tract infections (LRTIs) on lung cancer was the strongest.

Little is known regarding the association between clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) and risk of neurodegenerative diseases. We conducted a community-based cohort study based on UK Biobank and used Cox regression to estimate hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) Individuals with CHIP had an increased risk of any neurodegnerative disease (HR 1.10, 95% CI: 1.01-1.19)

The association between air pollutants and hepatobiliary pancreatic diseases remains inconclusive. This study analyzed up to 247,091 participants of White European ancestry (aged 37 to 73 years at recruitment) from the UK Biobank. PM 2.5 significantly increased liver disease risk.

Prescription opioid use (POU) has been shown to lead to cardiovascular disease (CVD), but its association with heart failure has not been well studied. We investigated the potential causal association between POU and HF using cohort studies and Mendelian Randomization (MR) analysis.

When combining imputed and sequenced data in a single gene-based association analysis, the problem of reconstructing genetic correlation matrices arises. To recover these correlations, we propose an efficient method based on maximising the determinant of the matrix. This method has a number of useful properties and an analytical solution for our task.

SARS-CoV-2 has resulted in a global pandemic with a rapidly developing global health and economic crisis. Variations in the disease have been observed and have been associated with the genomic sequence of either the human host or the pathogen.

Gastrointestinal (GI) disorders are highly prevalent and severely diminish life quality. It is yet unknown which dietary pattern is optimal for the prevention of GI disorders. Among 141 450 participants from UK Biobank with a median follow-up of 15 years, we comprehensively assessed 13 dietary patterns.

Over the next 10 years mental ill-health and suicidal behaviours have been predicted to increase. This paper investigated a Syndemic model of health experience in people with SMI. It was informed by physical activity levels, exposure to nature, personal resilience levels, drugs related (tobacco smoking and alcohol consumption), and sleep behaviours.

We examined the relationship between genetic risk for schizophrenia (SZ) and retinal morphological alterations. macular ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer (mGC-IPL) thickness was significantly inversely related to PRS for SZ. PRS, however, was unrelated to retinal vascular characteristics.

Most prediction models for coronary artery disease (CAD) compile biomedical and behavioural risk factors. This study explored the potential of integrating positive psychosocial factors (PPFs) into conventional and machine learning-based CAD prediction models.

In the UK Biobank, in utero tobacco exposure and age of smoking initiation were self-reported. A composite lifestyle score was calculated based on diet, physical activity, nicotine exposure, sleep duration, and BMI. Hazard ratio (HR) and absolute risk difference (ARD) were used to estimate associations of early-life smoking behaviors and genetic risk with incident T2D.

Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a complex disease with environmental and genetic risk factors. Polygenic risk scores (PRS) based on disease-specific risk-associated single nucleotide variants (SNVs) have demonstrated effectiveness in stratifying individual-level disease risk for cardiovascular diseases. This prospective cohort study assessed associations of PRS of AAA with risk of incident AAA.

The poor nutritional characteristics and potentially harmful molecules in ultra-processed foods (UPFs) were risk factors for diabetic microvascular complications. We included a prospective cohort of UK Biobank participants with type 2 diabetes (T2D) having at least one 24-h dietary recall. Triglycerides, C-reactive protein, and body mass index collectively explained 22.0% (9.6%-43.0%) of the association.

Study aimed to assess the fatty acid (FA) composition of abdominal subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue (ASAT and VAT) in the UK Biobank imaging cohort. We measured fractions of saturated, monounsaturated, and polyunsaturated FA (fSFA, fMUFA, and fPUFA, respectively) from multiecho MRI scans.

Arterial and venous cardiovascular conditions are genetically correlated. Interrogating underlying mechanisms may shed light on disease mechanisms. We aimed to identify (1) epidemiological and (2) causal, genetic relationships between metabolites and CAD, PAD, and VTE.

The Brain Care Score (BCS) is a tool designed to empower patients to address 12 dementia and stroke risk factors. The BCS ranges from 0 to 21, with higher scores suggesting better brain care. Every 5-point increase in baseline BCS was linked to significantly lower WMH volumes.

The human cerebellum is increasingly recognized to be involved in non-motor and higher-order cognitive functions. Yet, its ties with the entire cerebral cortex have not been holistically studied. Here, we characterized dissociable cortical-cerebellar structural covariation patterns based on regional gray matter volume (GMV) across the brain.

Analysis includes 44,796 UK Biobank participants (average age 64.1+/-7.7 years; 51.9% women) Ventricular asymmetry was expressed as the ratio of left and right ventricular (LV, RV) end-diastolic volumes.

 Retrotransposons comprise about 45% of the human genome. Their contributions to human trait variation and evolution are only beginning to be explored. We find that a sequence of SVA retrotransposon insertions in an early intron of the ASIP gene has probably shaped human pigmentation several times.

This cohort study included 40283 UK Biobank participants. Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio mediated 9.3% (95% CI, 3.3%-40.4%) of the association of trunk- to-leg lean mass ratio with all-cause mortality. Central lean mass distribution may interact synergistically with aging, and poor diet quality.

Study examined associations between patterns of body composition and the risk of neurodegenerative diseases. It also explored the mediating role of cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) Among 412,691 participants (mean age 56.0 years, 55.1% female), 8,224 new cases of neuro degenerative diseases were identified over an average follow-up of 9.1 years. Patterns identified as "fat-to-lean mass," "muscle strength," "bone density," and "leg-dominant fat distribution" were associated with a lower rate.

Osteoporosis (OP) is characterized by a gradual onset and an increased susceptibility to osteoporotic fractures. Previous studies have suggested that hemoglobin (HGB) levels could be a potential diagnostic marker for OP. This prospective study aimed to investigate the association between HGB levels and OP.

Air pollution is associated with chronic respiratory diseases (CRD) and lung function. The underlying metabolic mechanisms remain largely unclear. We identified 103, 86, 85, and 90 metabolites in response to PM 2.5 , PM 10 , NO X , and NO 2 exposure. The metabolomic signatures showed significant associations with CRD risk.

Study included 2,094 patients with diabetes with no history of CKD at baseline. Based on nearly 3,000 plasma proteins, a CKD protein risk score including 11 proteins was constructed.

Primary liver cancer is globally on the rise, partially due to poor diets and sedentary lifestyles. Shifting to more plant-based diets may lower the risk. We aimed to estimate the effect of replacing total red meat, unprocessed red meat and processed red meat with legumes on primary liver cancer.

Transthyretin is a transport protein whose misfolding has been implicated in the development of cardiac amyloidosis. V142I non-carriers [n = 35,167, mean: -0.1 (0.3)] have higher adjusted transt Hyretin levels compared with the carriers. Transthy Retin levels are lower in females, decrease with increasing C-reactive protein levels, and increase with body mass index.

The 21-point Brain Care Score (BCS) is a novel tool designed to motivate individuals and care providers to take action to reduce the risk of stroke and dementia. We tested the hypothesis that a higher BCS is associated with a reduced incidence of future depression. We also examined its association with a brain health composite outcome comprising stroke, dementia, and late-life depression.

Evidence is limited and inconsistent regarding vitamin D and heart failure (HF) risk in people with type 2 diabetes (T2D) Vitamin D insufficiency or deficiency is common among people with T2D. This study aimed to investigate the associations of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25[OH]D) with HF risk among individuals with T1D.

Genome-wide association studies for subsequent major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and subsequent arterial ischemic stroke (AIS) were performed. Two variants were significantly associated with subsequent cardiovascular events. These associations suggest that inflammation is a contributing factor to subsequent MACE outcomes after incident AIS.

Previous studies underscore the protective role of physical activity (PA) in bone health. But the relationship between different PA categories and osteoporosis risk remains less explored. Understanding the relationships helps tailor health recommendations and policies.

In 41,931 individuals from the United Kingdom Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project, we integrated measurements of 3,000 plasma proteins with clinical information to derive sparse prediction models for 218 common and rare diseases. The predictive performance of sparse models including as few as 5 to 20 proteins was superior to the performance of models developed using basic clinical information.

Data from 432,497 participants in UK Biobank, who were free of PD at baseline, were analyzed. Physical activity levels were assessed by measuring the duration of walking for pleasure, light and heavy do-it-yourself activities, strenuous sports, and other exercises.

The aim of this study was to examine the effects of habitual iron supplementation on the risk of CKD in individuals with different hypertensive statuses and antihypertension treatment statuses. We included a total of 427,939 participants in the UK Biobank study, who were free of CKd and with complete data on blood pressure at baseline.

285,213 dementia-free UK Biobank participants were enrolled between 2006 and 2010. Over a median follow-up of 13.8 years, 1887 dementia cases were documented. Current shift workers had significantly higher dementia risk than non-shift workers. This excess risk was eliminated in shift workers with 8 h of sleep.

Study aimed to explore association of five early life factors with incidence of depression and anxiety in adults aged 40-69 years. We used data from the UK biobank, 5,02,394 participants aged 40 to 69 years were recruited between 2006 and 2010. Increased risk of depression was found to be significantly associated with non-breastfeeding, maternal smoking around birth, birth weight, being born in a multiple birth, and adoption.

Less childhood education is a potentially modifiable risk factor for developing incident dementia. It is not known if education in later life is protective. We sought to add to previous work by testing the association between adult education and brain volume as well as exploring the impact of continuing adult education versus intermittent participation.

Primary diabetes care and diabetic retinopathy (DR) screening persist as major public health challenges due to a shortage of trained primary care physicians. We developed an integrated image-language system (DeepDR-LLM) combining a large language model (LLM module) and image-based deep learning. The LLM module demonstrated comparable performance to PCPs and endocrinology residents.

Cardiometabolic diseases (CMDs) including type 2 diabetes, heart disease, and stroke have been linked to a higher risk of dementia. We examined whether high levels of cognitive reserve (CR) can attenuate the increased dementia risk.

Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency is an inherited disorder caused by AAT mutations. We analysed the association between alcohol intake and liver-related parameters in individuals with the heterozygous/homozygous Pi*Z AAT variant. In both cohorts, no/low alcohol intake was reported by >80% of individuals, while harmful consumption was rare (~1%).

Study aims to construct an atlas on known and emerging factors for hypertension through comprehensive epidemiological and genetic analyses. This study included 214,957 UK Biobank participants, hypertension-free at baseline. In our ExWAS analyses, 964 significant exposome variables were replicated.

Retinal structures offer a unique opportunity to assess brain disorders. Their relationship to brain structure and function is not well understood. We conducted a systematic cross-organ genetic architecture analysis of eye-brain connections.

A total of 210,832 participants from the UK Biobank cohort were included in this prospective cohort study. Increased absolute sugar intake was significantly associated with a higher risk of all-cause dementia. Explorative mediation analyses were conducted to explore underlying mechanisms.

Muscle fiber atrophy is considered a major feature of sarcopenia. The greater muscle fiber cross-sectional area (CSA) is associated with greater skeletal muscle mass and strength. Fifty-seven single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified as having an association with muscle fiber size.

Low-grade inflammation (LGI) mainly acted as the mediator of the association of obesity and inflammatory diet with numerous chronic diseases, including neuropsychiatric diseases. The evidence about the effect of LGI on brain structure is limited but important, especially in the context of accelerating aging.

Mothers exhibit widely distributed higher gray matter density. No brain changes were observed in fathers. Parents reported a higher sense of life's meaning compared to childless counterparts. Gray matter changes did not mediate the relationship between motherhood and well-being.

Study was conducted with 357,554 UK Biobank participants. CRMM was defined as coexistence of two or three cardio-renal-metabolic diseases. Smoking status, diet, and social connection played pivotal roles in specific disease transitions. A healthy lifestyle may have a protective effect throughout the longitudinal progression of CRMM.

The associations between sugary beverages and genetic predisposition to depression risk remain unclear. We used data from the UK Biobank of 180 599 individuals aged 39-72 years who were depression-free at baseline. Higher consumption of SSBs and ASBs was associated with an increased risk of depression. In contrast, moderate consumption of NJs was inversely associated with a lower risk.

Metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) is a significant health problem. Dietary intervention plays an important role in patients with MAFLD.

Study looked at associations of individual and area-level socioeconomic status (SES) with incident cardiovascular diseases (CVD) alone, cancer alone, and comorbid CVD and cancer. We used the American Heart Association's Life's Simple 7 (smoking, body weight, physical activity, diet, blood pressure, blood glucose, and total cholesterol) to calculate the cardiovascular health score.

Endometrial cancer (EC) is one of the gynecologic malignancy cancer with increasing incidence and mortality rates. This study explores the associations between biological age accelerations (BAA) and risk of incident EC.

Among 84,421 UK Biobank participants (mean age: 62 years) who were free of diabetes at the time of providing accelerometer data in 2013-2015. There were 2,058 incident diabetes cases over 622,080 person-years of follow-up. Irregular sleep duration was associated with higher diabetes risk, particularly in individuals with a lower diabetes PRS and longer sleep duration.

The role of serum branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) in long-term liver cirrhosis complication events remains unclear. We aimed to evaluate the associations between serum BCAAs and the risk of liver-related events. Serum total BCAA and isoleucine concentrations might reduce the risk. by raising therisk of (type 2 diabetes mellitus) T2DM.

Chronic respiratory diseases (CRDs) are among the top three causes of human mortality. Relationship between modifiable environmental risk factor of noise and risk of mortality in CRDs is unclear. We investigated the longitudinal association between environmental noise exposure and cause-specific mortality in individuals with CRDs.

Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) have raised wide concerns. The association of PPIs with influenza is unexplored, while that with pneumonia or COVID-19 remains controversial. The current study included 160,923 eligible participants at baseline who completed questionnaires on medication use.

Proposed method generalizes Steiger's method from using a single SNP to multiple SNPs as IVs. It is especially useful in transcriptome-wide association studies (TWASs) with typically small sample sizes for gene expression (or another molecular trait) data. It can be applied to GWAS summary data with a reference panel.

Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) over-represent European ancestries, neglecting all other ancestry groups and low-income nations. polygenic risk scores (PRS) more accurately predict complex traits in Europeans than African Ancestries groups.

CSF1R -related disorder is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder. There is evidence that it is significantly underdiagnosed or misdiagnosed. We leveraged the large data set of the UK Biobank to determine the prevalence of mutations in the UK population and identify clinical phenotypes.

Study aimed to explore the associations of 30 dietary micronutrients intakes with risk of alcoholic liver disease (ALD) Case-control study was conducted within the UK Biobank cohort, with 231 incident ALD cases and 1386 controls. Creatinine (enzymatic) in urine, aspartate aminotransferase, and insulin-like growth factor 1 were the top 3 biomarkers with the highest number of significant mediation effects.

Genome-wide association studies have identified more than 200 risk loci associated with colorectal cancer. The functional mechanism of this region has not been fully elucidated. Here we employed an RNA interfering-based on-chip approach to screen for the genes essential for cell proliferation in the CRC risk locus 19q13.2. We found that RPS19 exhibited the most significant effect among the identified genes.

Previous studies have shown that inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is associated with osteoporosis (OP) and bone mineral density (BMD) This study wanted to explore the genetic and causal relationship between IBD and OP. The study indicates that IBD may increase the risk of OP.

Study included 298,984 UK Biobank participants without cardiometabolic diseases (CMDs) at baseline. Compared to former smokers, current smokers had higher risk at all transitions, with hazard ratio (95% confidence interval) = 1.59 (1.55 &#8764; 1.63)

Study included 222 824 participants free from CVD and CKD at baseline from the UK Biobank. During a mean follow-up of 14.1 years, 24 088 incident CVD events, 8605 CKD events and 15 813 deaths were documented. Elevated KB levels were associated with an increased risk of all-cause mortality across the glycaemic spectrum.

High levels of circulating IGF-1, HbA1c, and alanine aminotransferase were associated with lower ovarian cancer risk. These results suggest metabolism of glucose/amino acid and insulin/IGF-1 signaling pathway may be contributing to ovarian carcinogenesis.

Plasma low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol is positively associated with coronary artery disease risk. Biliary cholesterol promotes gallstone formation. Different plasma LDL-cholesterol lowering pathways may have distinct effects on biliary cholesterol.

The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has resulted in more than 692 million cases worldwide and nearly 7 million deaths (August 2023) EFCAB4B is a gene that encodes for two proteins (CRACR2A and Rab46) that play important roles in endothelial and T-cell secretion.

Group 1 show continuously decreasing GMV associated with higher neurocognitive performances than the other two groups during adolescence. Group 2 exhibit a slower rate of GMV decrease and lower neuroc cognitive performances compared with Group 1, which was associated with epigenetic differences and greater environmental burden. Using the UK Biobank, we show these differences may be attenuated in mid-to-late adulthood.

Exome sequencing of 40 IMDs in 350,770 UK Biobank participants identified 162 unique genes in 35 IMDs, among which 124 were novel genes. 91 genes exerted significant effects on longitudinal outcomes. Mendelian randomization identified five causal genes, of which four were approved drug targets.

Dyslipidemia is a well-known risk factor for cardiovascular disease, the leading cause of mortality worldwide. Although habitual intake of fish oil is associated with cardioprotective effects through triglyceride reduction, the interactions ofFish oil with the genetic predisposition to dysregulated lipids remain elusive.

Sleep quality was negatively correlated with childhood trauma, anxiety symptoms, and self-harm attempt. Multiple avenues of intervention, such as the provision of professional psychological interventions and timely monitoring, should be used to improve sleep quality and mental health.

Postoperative complications affect up to 15% of surgical patients. Combining deep neural networks and genomics with the already established clinical predictors may hold promise for improvement. Models were generated for atrial fibrillation, venous thromboembolism and pneumonia.

Lynch syndrome (LS) is an inherited cancer predisposition syndrome caused by genetic variants affecting DNA mismatch repair (MMR) genes. 830 carriers of pathogenic or likely pathogenic ( path_MMR ) MMR gene variants were identified in 454 756 UK Biobank (UKB) participants using whole-exome sequence. Nelson-Aalen survival analysis was used to estimate cumulative incidence of colorectal, endometrial and breast cancer (BC)

Both adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) and lifestyle factors have been associated with risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) in later life. We aimed to determine whether and to what extent adopting to a healthy lifestyle in adulthood can offset the risk of CVDs in individuals according to their ACEs.

Sodium intake reduction is crucial for cardiovascular health, but its lasting impact on dementia remains unclear. We included 458,577 UK Biobank participants without dementia at baseline. Over a mean follow-up of 13.6 years, 7886 (1.7%) developed all-cause dementia.

Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is often comorbid with somatic pain and psychological disorders. Dysregulated signaling of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor, tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB), has been implicated in somatic-psychological symptoms in individuals with IBS. We investigated the association of 10 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the regulatory 3' untranslated region of TrkB.

 Ideal cardiovascular health (CVH) has been associated with reduced cardiovascular disease risk and mortality. In this prospective cohort study, we investigated the relationship between CVH and subsequent arrhythmias risk, including atrial fibrillation/flutter.

Much of disease information is collected as time-to-event outcomes in interval-censored form. Conventional tools for genetic association analysis are often not available for this type of data. The proposed tests are applied to the UK Biobank to search for genes associated with fracture risk while accounting for death as a competing outcome.

Research on the association between dietary adherence and cancer risk is limited. Here we show significant negative associations of MedDiet and MINDDiet adherence with overall cancer risk. These associations remain robust across 14 and 13 specific cancers, respectively.

Study used data from UK Biobank aged 37 to 73 years. Light physical activity (LPA), moderate-to-vigorous activity (MVPA), sleep duration, and total sedentary behavior (TSB) were measured by accelerometers. Longer SSB time (HR = 1.18, 95%CI: 1.06-1.32) could increase depression risk. Replacing 1h/day TSB, SSB, and LSB with MVPA brought greatest risk reductions.

The link between nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and type 2 diabetes has not been fully established. Hepatic steatosis mediated approximately 69.514% of the total effect between obesity and follow-up T2D. Findings contribute to determining the sequential relationship between NAFLD and T 2D in the causal pathway.

Vitamin D users have a slightly higher prevalence of hypercalcemia, possibly due to co-supplementation with calcium, but without a higher atherosclerosis prevalence or risk of kidney stones. High 25(OH)D levels in routine care were not associated with any adverse outcome.

Little is known about the genetic background of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) Compared to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, MASLD presents significantly distinct diagnostic criteria, and epidemiological and clinical features. Autosomal genetic variants associated with NAFLD were compared with the MASLD GWAS results.

Chronic pain is associated with development of cardiovascular disease. We analysed data from participants enrolled in the UK Biobank study. The number of chronic pain sites was directly related to increased arterial stiffness index.

Tobacco smoking is a major risk factor for various diseases worldwide. Few studies have examined the impact of smoking cessation on the likelihood of common pancreatic exocrine diseases. Study sought to determine whether smoking cessation would reduce pancreatitis and PC morbidity.

This study utilized UK Biobank data from 144 286 participants and employed whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data and time-to-event data over a 12-year follow-up period. Following genotype quality control, 6 319 822 single nucleotide polymorphisms underwent analysis, revealing 31 significant variant-level associations. Among these, 29 were novel - 15 in Fibrillin-2 ( FBN2 ) and 4 in Junctophilin-2.

Early age at menarche (AAM) has been associated with a higher risk of carotid artery intima-media thickness (cIMT) A better understanding of the relationship between AAM, modifiable cardiometabolic risk factors and subclinical atherosclerosis may contribute to improved primary prevention and cardiovascular disease treatment.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) exhibits considerable phenotypic heterogeneity, suggesting the potential existence of subtypes. AD is under substantial genetic influence, thus identifying systematic variation in genetic risk may provide insights into disease origins. We performed principal component analysis (PCA) on AD-associated variants in the UK Biobank.

High blood basophil level is associated with increased odds of endometriosis. This association was first discovered in the ENDOX cohort (basophils >0.04 x10^9/L: OR 1.65 [95%CI:1.06-2.57], P trend = 0.025) and replicated in the UKBB dataset.

Study was based on UK Biobank participants without depression/anxiety recruited between 2006 and 2010. Depression and anxiety outcomes were assessed by diagnostic interviews and nondiagnostic scales. Compared with non-statin users, statin use was associated with reduced risk of depression and anxiety.

Cardiac digital twins (CDTs) have the potential to offer individualized evaluation of cardiac function in a non-invasive manner. CDTs could be a promising approach for personalized diagnosis and treatment planning of myocardial infarction (MI) In this work, we investigate the feasibility of inferring myocardials from the electrocardiogram (ECG) within a CDT platform.

Study aimed to investigate the relationships of lipids and their fractions with CKD in patients with T2D. The 10-year predicted probabilities of CKD were evaluated via integrating MR and Cox models. Higher GRS of apolipoprotein B was associated with an increased CKD risk.

Genetic variations in single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within oxytocin pathway genes have been linked to social behavior and neurodevelopmental conditions. The neurobiological mechanisms underlying these associations remain elusive. Empirical evidence has linked the GG genotype at OXT rs4813627 with a behavioral tendency of insensitivity to others.

Lung function parameters included forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) and forced vital capacity (FVC) 340, 253 participants without prior liver diseases were included from the UK Biobank. During a media follow-up duration of 9.3 years, 7335 cases of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) were documented. There was an inverse association of FEV1 and FVC with the presence of NAFLD.

Study aimed to evaluate the predictive performance of 7 established cardiovascular risk scores in cancer survivors from the UK Biobank. Participants were propensity matched on age, sex, deprivation, health behaviors, family history, and metabolic conditions. Incident cardiovascular events were tracked through health record linkage.

Vision and eye conditions are associated with increased risk for Alzheimer disease and related dementias (ADRDs) If causal, vision would be an important modifiable risk factor with viable population-level interventions. A cohort and MR study of UK Biobank participants found that cataracts were associated with an increased risk of dementia, especially vascular dementia.

Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is common among older individuals, but provoking factors are not identified in many cases. Clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP) is a precursor state to myeloid malignancies and may similarly predispose to VTE. JAK2 mutations were highly associated with both prevalent and incident VTE risk with odds ratio of 6.58 (95% CI 2.65-16.29)

Previous research on the association between serum albumin (ALB) and venous thromboembolism (VTE) has produced inconclusive results. It is still unknown whether albumin and genetic factors jointly contributed to the incidence of VTE. The present investigation was an analysis of prospectively collected data from UK Biobank.

Study aimed to investigate the association between peripheral inflammatory indicators and the risk of OA using data from the UK Biobank. Over a mean follow-up period of 12.7 years, a total of 49,509 OA events were identified. CRP, NLR, PLR, and SII were associated with an increased risk.

Weekend catch-up sleep was defined as a longer average sleep duration on weekends compared to weekdays. In multivariable-adjusted models, weekend catch- up sleep was not associated with mortality or CVD incidence. These findings do not align with previous evidence suggesting that extending sleep over the weekend may offer protective health benefits.

This study proposes the use of semiparametric log-normal shared frailty models to ana- lyze time-to-event data for individuals with similar features referred to as clusters. The results suggest the presence of frailty within the clusters and indicate cluster time dependence in the study population.

Multiorgan abnormalities were more common in individuals with type 2 diabetes (94%) than in age- and BMI-matched healthy individuals or healthy individuals with normal weight. Obesity was most closely associated with advanced liver disease, renal and visceral steatosis, and multiorgan abnormality. Pharmacological therapies with proven cardiorenal protection improved liver and vascular health unlike conventional glucose-lowering treatments.

Heart failure (HF) as a cardiovascular disease subtype is a growing global pandemic with high morbidity and mortality. Consumption of fried foods is highly prevalent in the Western dietary pattern. Western diet has been unfavorably linked with high risk of developing cardiovascular diseases.

Previous research has suggested that pathogen infections may serve as potential contributors to dementia. The study aimed to evaluate whether pathogen exposure heightens the risk of dementia. Out of the 8,144 participants, 107 eventually developed dementia, while 55 participants were diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease (AD) The highest quartile of EBV VCA p18 had a higher risk of AD compared lower quartile.

Study aimed to explore the time-varying impact of COVID-19 on acute kidney disorders, including acute kidney injury and other acute kidney diseases. 10,121 participants were matched with up to 3 historically unexposed controls by age, sex, Townsend deprivation index, and the status of hospitalization or receiving critical care.

Deep learning model predicts age from fundus images (retinal age) Study looked at association between retinal age gap and mortality risk. DL model achieved a strong correlation of 0.81 (p)

Previous research suggests physical activity attenuates grey and white matter loss. However, there appears to be individual variability in this effect. Understanding factors that can influence the relationship between physical activity and brain volume may enable prediction of individual response.

Fifty percent of diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) cases lack cell-surface expression of the class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC-I), thus escaping recognition by cytotoxic T cells. Loss of HLA-I, but not MHC-II, is preferentially restricted to DLBCL.

Genome-wide association study (GWAS) to identify genetic variants for stroke in an Indian population. 8 teaching hospitals in India recruited 4,088 participants, including 1,609 stroke cases. Imputed genetic variants were tested for association with stroke subtypes using single-marker and gene-based tests.

Blood pressure-lowering medications, antiplatelet drugs and statins are often prescribed to asymptomatic patients with white matter hyperintensities (WMH) A clinical trial is needed, but potential trial participants would be excluded if they already had another indication to take the medication. We used data from the UK Biobank study to determine what proportion of people with WMH were not taking these drugs.

Using longitudinal structural MRI data (4,422 observations), we tested the hypothesis that higher education translates into slower rates of brain aging. Cross-sectionally, education was modestly associated with regional cortical volume. Despite marked mean atrophy in the cortex and hippocampus, education did not influence rates of change.

QDECR is a flexible and extensible R package for group-level statistical analysis of cortical morphology. QDECR was written with large population-based epidemiological studies in mind and was designed to utilize the extensive modeling options in R.

Both genetic and lifestyle factors play an etiologic role in colorectal cancer (CRC) The risk reduction was more apparent among those with high PRS (HRhealthy vs. unhealthy HLS1) than those with low PRS.

Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a common consequence in type 2 diabetes (T2D) and a leading cause of blindness in working-age adults. Here, we examined the polygenic architecture underlying DR by deriving and assessing a genome-wide polygenic risk score (PRS) for DR. We observed that PRS was significantly associated with DR.

New method to test for differences in allele frequency between cases of two disorders. Simulations and analytical computations confirm that CC-GWAS is well powered with effective control of type I error.

Altered expression of the complement component C4A gene is a known risk factor for schizophrenia. Altered C 4A expression in the brain may be relevant for cognitive and behavioral traits. We obtained genetic information and performance measures on seven cognitive tasks.

Genome-wide association studies have identified multiple genomic regions associated with anorexia nervosa. No genome-wide studies of other eating disorders, such as bulimia nervosa and binge-eating disorder, have been performed. We aimed to identify traits that are genetically associated with binge-type eating disorders.

We use the genomic relationship (&#960;$$\pi$$) among 417,060 individuals to investigate the phenotypic covariance between pairs of individuals for 32 traits. We find linear relationships that agree with the SNP-based heritability in unrelated pairs. We also examine the effect of assortative mating on heritability estimates.

Dercum's disease (DD) is a loose connective (adipose) tissue disease characterized by painful lipomas. In the USA, the Orphan Drug Act of 1983 defines a rare disease as affecting under 200,000 individuals. The prevalence of DD has not been systematically assessed previously.

Mendelian randomisation uses genetic variants as instrumental variables to investigate causation. Strong evidence reduced forced vital capacity (FVC) causes increased risk of coronary artery disease (OR 1.32, 95% CI 1.19-1.46) There is weak evidence that reduced lung function increases risk of ischaemic stroke. FVC could be taken into consideration when assessing cardiovascular risk.

Adiposity now accounts for more deaths in England and Scotland than smoking among people in middle- and old-age. National strategies to address adiposity should be a public health priority.

American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association blood pressure (BP) guidelines lowered the hypertension threshold from a SBP/DBP level of at least 140/90 mmHg to at least 130/80mmHg. The cardiovascular impact of isolated systolic hypertension (ISH) and isolated diastolic hypertension(IDH) under the new definition remains unclear.

Previous research points to the heritability of risk-taking behaviour. However, evidence on how genetic dispositions are translated into risky behaviour is scarce. Here, we report a genetically informed neuroimaging study of real-world risky behaviour across the domains of drinking, smoking, driving and sexual behaviour.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) carriers carrying one defective copy of a CFTR germline mutation are common in the general population. A recent study reported associations of CF carriers with risk for cancers of digestive organs and pancreatic cancer. In the current study, we assessed associations ofCFTR F508del carriers with the risk for 54 types of cancers.

Baseline UK Biobank data (2006-10) for England were linked to SARS-CoV-2 test results. Included participants were employed or self-employed at baseline, alive and aged. Of 120 075 participants, 271 had severe COVID-19. Compared with white non-essential workers, non-white non- essential workers had a higher risk.

There has been uncertainty about the safety or benefit of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors during the COVID-19 pandemic. We used Mendelian randomization using genetic determinants of serum-ACE levels to test whether decreased ACE levels increase susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection.

Coeliac disease arises in genetically susceptible individuals, in particular in carriers of HLA-DQ2/DQ8 risk alleles and is associated with various comorbidities. We found 225 ICD-10 codes significantly associated with coeliac Disease. During the median follow-up of 10.7 years, coeliak disease individuals (n = 2482) had higher overall mortality.

We investigated independent associations between telomere length and risk of fracture and arthroplasty in UK Biobank participants. We studied 59,500 women and 51,895 men, mean +/- standard deviation (SD) age 56.4 +/- 8.0 years. During follow-up there were 5619 fractures; 5285 hip and 4261 knee arthro plasties.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and low bone mineral density (BMD), an indicator of osteoporosis (OP), appear epidemiologically associated. Shared genetic factors may explain this association. This study aimed to investigate the presence of pleiotropy to clarify the potential genetic association between RA and OP.

The contribution of shape changes to hip osteoarthritis (HOA) remains unclear. In the present study, we used statistical shape modeling (SSM) to evaluate relationships between hip shape and HOA of different severities using UK Biobank DXA images.

There is evidence that long-term environmental exposure to particulate air pollution is associated with type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and dementia. There are many occupations that may expose workers to airborne particles. Some exposures in the workplace are very similar to environmental particulate pollution. The results of the present study do not provide clear evidence of an association between occupational exposure and T2DM or dementia.

There is limited understanding of the genetic aetiology of obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) We aimed to identify genetic loci associated with OSA risk, and to test if OSA and its comorbidities share a common genetic background. We conducted the first large-scale genome-wide association study of OSA using the FinnGen study.

Reversible infantile respiratory chain deficiency (RIRCD) is a rare mitochondrial myopathy leading to severe metabolic disturbances in infants, which recover spontaneously after 6-months of age. RIRCD is associated with the homoplasmic m.14674T>C mitochondrial DNA mutation. Only 1/100 carriers develop the disease.

Dietary fiber intake may relate to bone health. The associations of dietary fiber intake with estimated BMD were assessed. Participants with lower genetically determined propionate production may benefit more from taking more dietary fiber.

Loss of NEMP1 homologs in Drosophila, Caenorhabditis elegans, zebrafish, and mice leads to sterility or early loss of fertility. Loss of Nemp leads to nuclear shaping defects, most prominently in the germ line.

The role of obesity and overweight in occurrence of COVID-19 is unknown. We conducted a large-scale general population study using data from a community-dwelling sample in England. There was an upward linear trend in the likelihood of CO VID-19 hospitalization with increasing BMI. Elevated risk was apparent even at modest weight gain.

Anti-TNF exposure has been linked to demyelination events. We conducted a case-control study to describe the clinical features of demyalination events following anti- TNF exposure. We compared genetic risk scores [GRS], calculated using carriage of 43 susceptibility loci for MS, in 48 cases.

Genomes from Neanderthals, Denisovans, and ancient humans have revealed protein-coding variants that may hold clues to how our species evolved over the last &#8764;600,000 years. In this study, we identify such variants in the human-specific NOTCH2NL gene family.

Caffeine, alcohol, nicotine and cannabis are commonly used psychoactive substances. While the use of these substances has been previously shown to be genetically correlated, causality between these substance use traits remains unclear. We aimed to revisit the genetic relationships among different measures of SU.

We identify genetic loci associated with phenotypic variability in thalamus volume and cortical thickness. The variance-controlling loci involved genes with a documented role in brain and mental health and were not associated with the mean anatomical volumes.

Risk variants identified so far for colorectal cancer explain only a small proportion of familial risk of this cancer, particularly in Asians. We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in East Asians. Of the remaining 59 variants, 12 showed an association at P   P  -8. We identified three novel risk loci and two highly suggestive loci.

Blood lipids are causally involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, but their role in cerebral small vessel disease remains largely elusive. We explored associations of genetic determinants of blood lipid levels, lipoprotein particle components, and targets for lipid-modifying drugs. Genetic predisposition to higher HDL-C levels was associated with lower risk of small vessel stroke.

New evidence suggests that handgrip strength is associated with better cognitive performance in people with major depressive disorder (MDD) The underlying processes are unclear, although hippocampal volume (HCV) reductions and white matter hyperintensities (WMHs) have been implicated. We investigated associations between grip strength and various brain region volumes and WMHs in MDD and healthy controls.

Cell type-specific binding of transcription factors (TF) is critical to gene regulation. Assessing contribution of genetic variation in TF-binding sites to disease heritability is challenging. We investigate approaches to annotate TF binding, including directly measured chromatin data and sequence-based predictions.

Breakfast has been determined to exhibit the most heritable meal timing. Little is known about the contribution of genetic variation to food timing. Breakfast timing and skipping are not routinely measured in large cohort studies.

There are known risk factors associated with the development of heart failure (HF) It is not fully understood whether these differ by sex. Women with type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia, low levels of physical activity and fitness, low strength, high levels of TV viewing, sleep duration were at higher risk of HF incidence.

Study aimed to identify causal blood biomarkers linking favorable adiposity with type 2 diabetes risk for use in cardiometabolic risk assessments. Only insulin-like growth factor-binding protein (IGFBP)-3 concentration was associated with the PRS, where a 1 unit increase in PRS predicted a 0.28-SD decrease in IGFBP-3.

 Observational epidemiological studies have found an association between schizophrenia and breast cancer, but it is not known if the relationship is a causal one. We used summary statistics from very large genome-wide association studies of schizophrenia (n = 40675 cases and 64643 controls) and breast Cancer. We found that there is a small but significant genetic correlation (rG) between the 2 disorders, indicating shared genetic risk factors.

A polygenic risk score of 90 single nucleotide polymorphisms previously associated with stroke was constructed at P -5. Adherence to a healthy lifestyle was determined on the basis of four factors: non-smoker, healthy diet, body mass index  2 , and regular physical exercise.

Most expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) studies to date have been performed in heterogeneous tissues as opposed to specific cell types. Melanocyte eQTLs are enriched in cis -regulatory signatures found in melanocytes as well as in melanoma-associated variants identified through genome-wide association studies.

Erectile dysfunction affects millions of men worldwide. Twin studies support the role of genetic risk factors underlying erectile dysfunction, but no specific genetic variants have been identified. In the discovery cohort, we identified a single locus (rs17185536-T) on chromosome 6 near the single-minded family basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor 1 ( SIM1 ) gene.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a heterogeneous disease for which disease-causing pathways are incompletely understood. Unlike other biomarkers, germline genetic markers do not change with disease progression or treatment. In an effort to identify mechanistic pathways driven by established T2D genetic loci, we applied Bayesian nonnegative matrix factorization (bNMF) clustering.

 serum estradiol (E2) is more strongly associated with bone mineral density (BMD) than serum testosterone (T) Both E2 and T associate with fracture risk in men. A 1 SD (or 9.6 pg/mL) genetically instrumented decrease in serum E2 levels was associated with a 0.38 SD decrease in eBMD (P value: 9.7 × 10-74)

Extreme longevity in humans has a strong genetic component, but whether this involves genetic variation in the same longevity pathways as found in model organisms is unclear. Using whole-exome sequences of a large cohort of Ashkenazi Jewish centenarians, we found most longevity-associated rare coding variants converge upon insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1 signaling and AMP-activating protein kinase signaling.

SARS-CoV-2 has resulted in a global pandemic with a rapidly developing global health and economic crisis. Variations in the disease have been observed and have been associated with the genomic sequence of either the human host or the pathogen.

The study examined the association between liver function-related indicators and gallstone disease (GSD) risk. The results were consistent when stratified by the study design, geographic background, and study quality. This study suggests liver function indicators were associated with GSD risk.

A total of 388,900 participants from the United Kingdom Biobank from 2006 to 2010 were included. For each standard deviation increase in the TyG index, TyG-BMI, TG/HDL-C, and METS-IR, the risk of EAC increased by Hazard ratios.

Fatty acid (FA) metabolism plays an important role in the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) However, data on the relation of circulating FAs with NAFLD risk are limited. This study aimed to assess the associations between specific circulating F as and severe NA FLD risk among the general population. 116,223 participants without NAFLd and other liver diseases from the UK Biobank, were enrolled between 2006 and 2010.

Evidence on the association between cardiovascular health (CVH) and breast cancer is limited. The present study aimed to assess the association of CVH, defined by Life's Essential 8 (LE8), and genetic risk with breast cancer incidence and mortality among premenopausal and postmenopausal women. High LE8 score was associated with 22% lower risk of breast cancer.

Genome-wide association study (GWAS) was performed on two noninvasive definitions of hepatic fat content: MRI-PDFF and fatty liver index (FLI) Heritability, genetic overlap, and similarity between hepaticfat content phenotypes were analyzed. Novel MRI- PDFF genetic signals (CREB3L1 and GCM1) were replicated in the FLI GWAS.

Study aimed to investigate the hypothesis that breastfeeding reduces the risk of lung cancer-related death. Over a median follow-up duration of 11.8 years, encompassing a total of 501 859 participants, breastfeeding was found to reduce the risk. The influence of maternal smoking and breastfeeding was significant at a high genetic risk level.

A total of 448,574 participants enrolled in the UK Biobank study were included. Circulating C-reactive protein(CRP), white blood cell count(WBC), platelet count(Plt), and neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio(NLR) were measured. Dietary intake information was documented through 24-hour dietary recalls.

Sedentary behavior (SB), moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA), and white matter hyperintensity (WMH) volumes are associated with risk of neurodegenerative disease in middle-aged to older adults. Both MVPA and SB were associated with WMH volumes.

Regular mobile phone use was defined as at least 1 call per week. Weekly mobile phone usage time was self-reported as the average time of calls per week over the previous 3 months. In a median follow-up period of 12.3 years, 56,181 individuals developed incident CVD. Compared with nonregular mobile phone users, regular phone users had a significantly higher risk of CVD and increased CIMT.

Mendelian randomization (MVMR) estimates the direct effects of multiple exposures on an outcome. This study tackles the issue of highly correlated exposures commonly observed in metabolomic data. We identified two independent signal clusters for AD: glutamine and lipids, with posterior inclusion probabilities of 95.0% and 81.5%.

Intraocular pressure (IOP) is closely correlated with blood pressure (BP) Each 10-mmHg increase in diastolic BP was linked to a 0.13 ml larger white matter hyperintensity (WMH) Associations between IOP and brain volumes were more pronounced in younger individuals or those without hypertension.

Myocardial strain using cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) is a sensitive marker for predicting adverse outcomes in many cardiac disease states. The prognostic value in the general population has not been studied conclusively. 45,700 participants were included in the study (average age 65 +/- 8 years)

Study used data from the UK Biobank, a middle-aged and elderly cohort recruited in 2006-2010. Depression was associated with a higher prevalence of modifiable risk factors. These risk factors were associated with increased mortality in the depression subsample and explained most of the excess mortality risk associated with depression.

We investigated the genetic architecture of obesity by clustering the Japanese and British populations with obesity using obesity-related factors. In Step-1, we conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) with body mass index (BMI) as the outcome. In step-2, we assigned participants with obesity to five clusters based on obesity- related factors.

Two independent datasets (UK Biobank and our tertiary academic institution) of good-quality retinal photographs derived from subjects with AD and controls were used to build two deep learning models. The models' performance to distinguish AD from non-AD was determined using mean accuracy, sensitivity, specificity and receiving operating curves. The self-supervised ADRET model had superior accuracy when compared with ADVAS.

Previous observational studies have investigated the association between coffee consumption and single cardiometabolic disease. This study aimed to further investigate the association of coffee consumption with the onset and progression of cardiometric multimorbidity (CMM) Coffee consumption was associated with lower risk for almost all transition phases of CMM development and consistent findings were observed with unsweetened coffee.

Study used data from the UK Biobank, a population-based cohort. Participants were current drinkers aged 60 years or older. Data were analyzed from September 2023 to May 2024. Wine preference and drinking with meals showed small protective associations with mortality, especially from cancer.

Mendelian randomization method was used to investigate the causal association between immune cell and different types of sepsis. CD16 on CD14 - CD16 + ; monocyte had horizontal pleiotropy in seps isis. There were five immunophenotypes that had reverse causal associations with the types associated with sepsi.

 periodontal disease is the sixth most common disease worldwide. It may be a contributory risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD) This study used non-invasive cardiac imaging, longitudinal and genetic data to characterize the association.

Previous studies on alcohol consumption and incident gout have mostly included men or combined both sexes. This prospective cohort study included 401 128 participants in the UK Biobank aged 37 to 73 years. Current drinkers showed a higher risk of gout than never drinkers among men. Beer or cider showed the strongest association per 1 pint per day.

Inflammation has been proposed as a mechanism linking cardiometabolic diseases (CMDs) to increased risk of dementia. However, whether an anti-inflammatory diet can support brain and cognitive health among people with CMDs is unclear. The UK Biobank is an ongoing community-based cohort study with baseline assessments conducted between March 13, 2006, and October 1, 2010.

Hormone therapy (HT) is associated with health outcomes in postmenopausal women. This population-based, retrospective cohort study included women registered in the UK Biobank. Ever use of HT was associated with a smaller biological aging discrepancy than never use ofHT. The association between HT and a smaller aging discrepancy was more evident in women with low SES.

Transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) aims to identify trait-associated genes regulated by significant variants. Traditional approaches still face two main challenges: the lack of methods that can guarantee finite-sample false discovery rate (FDR) control. We propose a powerful knockoff inference method termed TWAS-GKF to identify candidate trait- associated genes.

The presence of horizontal pleiotropy in Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis has long been a concern due to its potential to induce substantial bias. In recent years, many robust MR methods have been proposed to address this. Here, we propose a novel two-stage framework called CMR, which integrates a conditional analysis of multiple genetic variants. Extensive simulation studies showcased the superior performance of the proposed CMR framework.

We examined associations between genetic instruments for smoking initiation, smoking heaviness and lifetime smoking and these phenotypes. We found evidence that smoking-related genetic instruments were associated with phenotypes not plausibly caused by smoking. This may reflect horizontal pleiotropy in these genetic risk scores.

Opioid use impacts metabolic homeostasis, although mechanisms remain elusive. We explore the OPRD1 gene (encoding delta opioid receptor, DOP) to understand its impact on type 2 diabetes. Loss-of-function variants are associated with higher adiposity and lower hyperglycemia risk. Findings align with studies of opium addicts.

Activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome has been implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD) Clinical trials targeting the NL RP3 infammasome in PD are ongoing. We analyzed common and rare variants in NLRP1 inflammaome-related genes in PD cohorts.

Common kidney stones are unlikely to be an independent and direct cause of CKD in the general population. Kidney stones did significantly associate with a higher urinary albumin-creatinine ratio. Conversely, CKD was associated with a lower risk of calcium kidney stones.

The comorbidity of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-related macular degeneration (AMD) has been established in clinical and genetic studies. There is growing interest in determining the shared environmental factors associated with both conditions.

A total of 373,330 participants from the UK Biobank without glaucoma at recruitment were included in this study. During a median follow-up of 13.1 (interquartile range: 12.3-13.9) years, 6,489 participants developed glau coma. After adjusting for confounding factors, loneliness and social isolation were associated with a higher risk of glauCOMa.

Mendelian randomization was applied to elucidate the causal role of serum lipids in AD. Only Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type 9 (PCSK9) was significantly linked to a reduced AD risk. Beta nerve growth factor (b-NGF) might mediate approximately 12.8% of PCSK9's influence.

Social determinants of health (SDHs) are the primary drivers of preventable health inequities. Study aimed to estimate the associations of combined SDHs with life expectancy and future health risks among adults with type 2 diabetes from the UK and USA. In the UK Biobank, 3235 deaths and 2259 cancer cases were documented.

In 2020, the Lancet Commission identified 12 modifiable factors that increase population-level dementia risk. It is unclear if these risk factors co-occur among individuals in a clinically meaningful way. Using latent class analysis, we identified profiles of modifiable dementia risk factors in dementia-free adults aged 60-64 years.

Study included 396,600 participants without prior dementia and CKD from the UK Biobank. During a median follow-up of 12.5 years, new-onset CKD developed in 13,090 participants. Per 1 SD score increments in genetically predicted global cognitive function resulted in a significantly (7%) lower risk of CKD.

The association of residential environments with psoriasis risk was modified by genetic susceptibility. We observed joint effects of genetic risk and residential environments and an antagonistic additive interaction between blue spaces and genetic risk (P = 0.011) We observed that residing in natural environments and green areas increased the risk of Psoriasis.

Cardiometabolic continuum (CMC) is sequence of cardiovascular events that stem from gene-environmental interactions, unhealthy lifestyle influences, and metabolic diseases such as diabetes, and hypertension. We present a machine learning approach to model the CMC and investigate sex and population differences. Smoking habits and education had high importance and clear directionality for both sexes.

Osteoarthritis increased the likelihood of developing dementia, and had an association with regional brain atrophy. OA therapy lowered the risk of dementia in both medication group and surgery group.

The global burden of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is growing, but its subsequent health consequences have not been thoroughly examined. A phenome-wide association study was conducted to map the associations of MASLD with 948 unique clinical outcomes.

We examined the association between hypnotic agents and cardiovascular outcomes in general individuals with insomnia. No significant association was detected between Z-meds and CHD, stroke, and cardiovascular mortality. Benzodiazepine use was significantly associated with the increased risk of CHD and HF.

Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been implicated in potentially safeguarding against diabetic microvascular complication. However, the causal nature of these relationships remains ambiguous due to conflicting findings across studies. This research employs Mendelian randomization (MR) to assess the causal impact of PUFAs on diabeticMicrovascular complications.

Portability of trans-ancestral polygenic risk scores is often confounded by differences in linkage disequilibrium and genetic architecture between ancestries. Recent literature has shown that prioritizing GWAS SNPs with functional genomic evidence over strong association signals can improve model portability. We leveraged three RegulomeDB-derived functional regulatory annotations-SURF, TURf, and TLand.

Total joint arthroplasty (TJA) is an orthopedic procedure commonly used to treat damaged joints. Despite the efficacy of TJA, postoperative complications, including aseptic prosthesis loosening and infections, are common. The effects of individual genetic susceptibility and modifiable risk factors on these complications are unclear.

Urea cycle impairment and its relationship to obesity and inflammation remained elusive. We generated mice with hepatocyte-specific arginase 2 deletion (Arg2 LKO ) and revealed a mild compensated urea cycle defect. serum-based hallmarks of urea, TCA cycle, and mitochondrial derangements predict incident fibroinflammatory liver disease in 106,606 patients nearly a decade in advance.

SF-Relate is a practical and secure federated algorithm for identifying genetic relatives across data silos. We assign individuals who are likely to be related together into buckets and then test relationships only between individuals in matching buckets across parties. To guarantee privacy, we introduce an efficient algorithm based on multiparty homomorphic encryption (MHE) to allow data holders to cooperatively compute the relatedness coefficients between individuals.

Aggregated L0Learn using Summary-level data (ALL-Sum) is a fast and scalable ensemble learning method for computing PRS. It leverages a L0L2 penalized regression and ensemble learning across tuning parameters to flexibly model traits with diverse genetic architectures. All-Sum consistently outperformed popular alternative methods in terms of prediction accuracy, runtime, and memory usage.

Previous research on autism spectrum disorders (ASD) have showed important volumetric alterations in the cerebellum and brainstem. Herein, we aimed to explore the association between the cumulative genetic load (polygenic risk score, PRS) for ASD and volumetry alterations. We utilized the latest genome-wide association study of ASD by the Psychiatric Genetics Consortium.

Childhood maltreatment has been indicated in adverse health outcomes across the lifespan, including severe infection-related outcomes. We found the number of CM types was associated with the risk of severe COVID-19 outcomes in a graded manner. 50.9% of the association was explained by suboptimal socio-economic status, lifestyle, and pre-pandemic diagnosis of psychiatric disorders.

Finding an interpretable and compact representation of complex neuroimaging data is extremely useful for understanding brain behavioral mapping. Here, we implemented a data-driven approach using a three-dimensional autoencoder on two large-scale datasets. This approach provides a latent representation of high-dimensional task-fMRI data which can account for demographic characteristics.

Poor sleep score and renal function biomarker score (RFS) were associated with an increased risk of new-onset severe MASLD. Study highlights the bidirectional communication of the liver-kidney axis.

Circulating plasma proteins play key roles in human health. They can potentially be used to measure biological age, allowing risk prediction for age-related diseases, multimorbidity and mortality. We developed a proteomic age clock in the UK Biobank (n = 45,441) using 2,897 plasma proteins.

Long-term exposure to PM 2.5 , PM 10 , NO 2 , NO x , and SO 2 was significantly associated with the risk of cardiopulmonary disease in PRISm. The corresponding hazard ratios (HRs) per interquartile range (IQR) were 1.84 (1.76, 3.84) and 1.45 (132, 1.57), respectively.

Study assessed whether digital gait biomarkers from a wrist-worn device could identify people with frailty in a large sample of middle-aged and older adults. Findings indicate that measures obtained from wrist- worn wearable devices worn in everyday life can identify individuals withFrailty.

The burgeoning field of brain health research increasingly leverages artificial intelligence (AI) to analyze and interpret neuroimaging data. Medical foundation models have shown promise of superior performance with better sample efficiency. This work introduces a novel approach towards creating 3D medical foundation models.

The eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) model was utilized to rank the importance of 11 micronutrients in cardiovascular health. Results indicated that vitamin E, calcium, vitamin C, and potassium intake were associated with a reduced risk of CVD. Subgroup analysis revealed a stronger correlation between calcium intake and CVD risk in older adults.

Little is known about the brain's role in mediating links between physical and mental health. We identify lifestyle and environmental factors that influence mental health through their selective impact on the physiology of specific organ systems and brain structure.

 increased left ventricular mass has been associated with adverse cardiovascular outcomes including incident cardiomyopathy and atrial fibrillation. The regional distribution of myocardial hypertrophy is extremely variable and genetic associations of such variability require further study. Apical and septal mass may be driven by genes distinct from total left vent cardiac mass.

We evaluated the effect of hyperuricemia on the presence and development of CKD after considering genetic background by calculating polygenic risk scores (PRSs) We observed a significant positive association between PRS and CKD and the presence of the disease.

Long-term exposure to air pollutants was positively related to the schizophrenia risk. Interactions between genetic factors and the pollutants NO 2  and NO x had an effect on schizophrenia events.

Low birth weight was associated with higher risk of MI. No significant correlation between high birth weight and MI was observed after adjustment. Improving LE8 can mitigate MI risk attributed to low birth weight.

Cancer and cardiovascular disease share common lifestyle risk factors. It remains unclear whether cardiovascular health (CVH) evaluated by Life's Essential 8 can predict cancer risk. High CVH was associated with decreased risks of overall cancer and the majority of common cancers.

Concentrating recommended physical activities into 1-2 days per week is associated with a lower incidence of NDDs. When the exercise threshold was increased to 75% of MVPA, both patterns still were associated with decreased risk of incident all-cause dementia.

 flavonoids may have potential effects on hormone-related cancers (HRCs) due to their anti-cancer properties. We aimed to examine the association of flavonoid intake with risks of HRCs and whether this association was mediated by blood biomarkers involved in biological mechanisms.

Phenome-wide Multi-Institutional Multimorbidity Explorer (PheMIME) leverages three large-scale EHR systems. It offers interactive and multifaceted visualizations for exploring multimorbidities. It is a significant advancement in medical informatics.

Watch Walk digital biomarkers were developed, validated, and applied to 92,022 participants aged 45-79 who wore a wrist sensor for at least three days. Normative data were collected for daily-life walking speed, step-time variability, step count, and 17 other gait and sleep biomarkers.

The genetic structure in Europe was mostly shaped by admixture between the Western Hunter-Gatherers, Early European Farmers and Steppe Bronze Age ancestral components. Heart rate, platelet count, bone mineral density and many other traits show stratification similar to height and pigmentation traits.

The current evidence regarding how different predictor domains contributes to predicting incident dementia remains unclear. This study aims to assess the incremental value of five predictor domains when added to a simple dementia risk prediction model. Neuroimaging markers provided the highest incremental value in predicting all-cause dementia and AD.

Telomere length (TL) has been acknowledged as biomarker of biological aging. We evaluated relationship between individual and combined early life factors and leukocytes TL in middle and late life using data from the UK Biobank. Exposure to maternal smoking, lack of breastfeeding, low birth weight, and shorter height compared to peers at age 10 were identified to be associated with shorter TL.

We used 15 HCC-associated genetic loci from two PRSs and FinnGen GWAS data to calculate a PRS-combined score and to fit the related PRS model in the UK Biobank cohort (N = 436,162) The top 20% of the PRS combined distribution had a 3.25 increased risk of HCC vs. the middle decile.

High-density lipoprotein (HDL) might lose atheroprotective functions in the presence of diabetes. We sought to examine associations of HDL cholesterol and HDL particle with risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) stratified by diabetes. HDL-C showed inverse associations with CHD among nondiabetics, whereas U-shaped associations among diabetics.

Aspirin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) usage has been associated with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) prevention. The aim of this study is to identify if aspirin and other NSAIDs are effective in the primary prevention of PDAC in a large UK prospective cohort.

Study looked at 103,215 non-diabetic participants in the UK Biobank cohort. After adjustment, compared to the comfortable group, the participants working in non-comfortable environmental temperature had greater risk of T2D.

The heritability of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is estimated to be 58%-79%. However, known genes can only partially explain the heritability. We conducted gene-based exome-wide association study (ExWAS) of rare variants and single-variant ExWAS of common variants. We identified 11 genes predicting a higher ADRD risk, including five novel ones and six previously reported ones.

It is elusive why some heavy drinkers progress to severe alcohol-related liver disease (ALD) while others do not. This study aimed to investigate if the association between alcohol consumption and severe ALD is modified by diet. This prospective study included 303,269 UK Biobank participants.

Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging shows promise in estimating pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) non-invasively. At the population level, the prognostic role of CMR-modelled PCWP remains unknown.

The UK Biobank provides access to a large magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data set. Fifty thousand three hundred thirty-two participants were included in the study. Total fat-free thigh muscle declined between the ages of 45 and 84 years. Intramuscular fat of the thigh continued to increase.

Copy-number variants (CNVs) have been implicated in a variety of neuropsychiatric and cognitive phenotypes. We found that deleterious CNVs are less prevalent in non-European ancestry groups than they are in European ancestry groups.

We built a reference panel with 342 million autosomal variants using 78,195 individuals from the Genomics England (GEL) dataset. The GEL-imputed UK Biobank genome-wide association analysis identified 70% of associations found by direct exome sequencing.

The language network of the human brain has core components in the inferior frontal cortex and superior/middle temporal cortex, with left-hemisphere dominance in most people. Excitatory connections between cortical regions arise and innervate according to layer-specific patterns.

Aortic diameter estimation models were built with a 1.1 million-variant polygenic score. Models were validated internally in 4394 UK Biobank participants and externally in 5469 individuals from Mass General Brigham.

The interplay between genetic and lifestyle factors in the development of bipolar disorder (BD) remains unclear. A cohort study was carried out on 365,517 participants from the UK Biobank. A favorable lifestyle was associated with a reduced risk of developing BD.

Short sleep duration, snoring, insomnia, and 'insomnia and snoring' were associated with increased risk of 0, 9, 10, and 19 diseases. These diseases were classified into three disease modules, characterized by predominant diseases related to digestive system, circulatory and endocrine systems. Genetic determinants associated with each disease module were identified by genome-wide association studies.

Childhood Emotional Support (CES) and the mechanisms of aging is pivotal for understanding its potential to lessen the incidence of age-related pathologies and promote a milieu for healthy aging. Data from the UK Biobank comprising nearly 160,000 individuals were used to explore associations.

Study included 11,949 individuals diagnosed with T2D, matched with 47,796 non-T2D control study participants from the UK Biobank cohort. Each additional risk factor controlled was associated with an average 19% lower risk of HF. Optimal control of at least six risk factors associated with a 67% lower HF risk.

We developed a computational pipeline (now provided as a resource) for measuring morphological similarity between cortical surface sulci. We constructed a sulcal phenotype network (SPN) from each magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan in an adult cohort. Networks estimated from pairwise similarities of 40 sulci on 5 morphological metrics comprised two clusters.

The causal relationship between daytime napping and the risk of Parkinson's disease (PD) remains unclear. This study investigated the association between napping frequency and duration and PD incidence. The role of the systemic immune-inflammation index (SII) in the association was assessed through mediation analyses.

 Obesity is a key predictor of type 2 diabetes (T2D) But metabolic complications are not solely due to increased BMI. We hypothesized that differences between genetically predicted BMI and observed BMI could reflect deviation from individual set point and may predict incident T2D.

The mechanisms underlying relationships between ambient air pollution and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) risk remained largely uncertain. A total of 227,962 participants with complete data were included from the UK biobank study. Concentrations of nitrogen dioxide (NO 2 ), nitrogen oxides (NO x ), and particulate matter (PM 2.5 and PM 10 ) were evaluated by land-use regression models.

Peptidylglycine-&#945;-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) is a critical enzyme in the endocrine system. Two LoF variants in the PAM gene, Ser539Trp (minor allele frequency: 0.7%) and Asp563Gly (5%), independently contributed to a decrease of 2.33 [95% confidence interval (CI): 2.52/2.15; P = 2.5E-140] and 0.98 (1.04/0.92) SD units of PAM-AMA, respectively. The cumulative effect of the LoF was associated with diabetes, reduced insulin secretion, and higher levels of GH

Body image dissatisfaction (BID) has been recognised as a psychological correlate of body size. Being overweight increased the risk of disordered eating and self-harm. Being underweight was protective against disordered Eating.

We postulated that T2D predisposes to exocrine pancreatic diseases through (epi)genetic mechanisms. We explored the methylome (methylationEPIC arrays) of the exocrine pancreas of 141 donors. PNLIPRP1 null variants (in 191K participants of the UKbiobank) associated with elevated glycemia and LDL-cholesterol.

Influenza, viral, respiratory, and skin and subcutaneous infections were associated with increased long-term dementia risk. These infections were also associated with region-specific brain volume loss, most commonly in the temporal lobe. Genetic variants influenced expression of immunologically relevant infection-related proteins, including ITGB6 and TLR5.

DAPGAN is a deep adaptive perceptual generative adversarial network. It reconstructs high-quality MR images from undersampled k-space data. The method improves the average SSIM from 0.81 to 0.93.

Genome-wide association study meta-analyses were conducted of in situ melanoma vs controls, and in situ vs invasive melanoma (case-case) using 4 population-based genetic cohorts. A strong genetic correlation (genetic r = 0.96; 95% CI, 0.76-1.15) was observed between the 2 classifications. Despite indistinguishable heritability estimates between the melanoma classifications, PRS suggest germline genetics may influence whether a person gets in situ or invasive melanomas.

There is considerable uncertainty regarding the associations between various risk factors and Parkinson's Disease. This study systematically screened and validated a wide range of potential PD risk factors from 502,364 participants in the UK Biobank.

Many disease processes are influenced by circadian clocks and display 24-hour rhythms. Whether disruptions to these rhythms increase stroke risk is unclear. We examined 100 000 participants from the UK Biobank. Suppressed relative amplitude was associated with stroke risk.

The American Heart Association introduced a novel cardiovascular health (CVH) metric, Life's Essential 8 (LE8), for health promotion. The relationship between LE8 and cancer mortality risk remains uncertain. High CVH was associated with reduced overall cancer mortality compared to low CVH. Adherence to ideal CVH correlates linearly with decreased mortality risk across multiple cancer subtypes.

Study aimed to investigate associations of time from waking to first cigarette (TWFC) with all-cause mortality, cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality and incident CVD. Data were from the UK Biobank, including 32 519 people smoking aged 40-70 years.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have emerged as popular tools for identifying genetic variants that are associated with complex diseases. Most of the multiple phenotype association tests are designed for a single variant, resulting in much lower power. We propose a new method, named Meta-TOW-S, which conducts joint association tests between multiple phenotypes and a set of variants.

The UK Biobank documented 5132 incident VHD cases with a mean follow-up of 12.3 years and 1418 deaths following VHD. Compared to those with a poor lifestyle, women and men with VHD who followed an ideal lifestyle had lower hazard ratios.

Study includes 175 214 cancer-free participants in the UK Biobank. Participants with the highest EAT-Lancet diet scores have a lower risk of lung cancer incidence.

Proteomic biomarkers have shown promise in predicting various cardiovascular conditions. But their utility in assessing the risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) remains unclear. Study aimed to develop a protein-based risk score for predicting incident AF.

Using data from 332,359 UK Biobank participants, we calculated biological aging acceleration, indexed by the presence of leukocyte telomere length (LTL) deviation. The acceleration of facial aging (i.e., looking older than the chronological age) was assessed using a self-report question. Compared to the "Absence of trauma and psychopathology" cluster, the "adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) with psychopathologist" cluster showed strong associations with those aging measurements.

 Accelerated biological aging may be associated with increased risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) However, its relationship with genetic variation, and its effect on improving risk population stratification remains unknown. We performed an exposome association study to determine potential associated factors associated with EAC.

Higher accelerometer-assessed volume and intensity of physical activity (PA) have been associated with a longer life expectancy. We aimed to produce UK Biobank age-referenced centiles for PA volume andintensity. We modeled the effect of adding moderate (walking) or vigorous (running) activity.

Inflammatory spondyloarthropathies (ISpAs) are associated with pain, fatigue, stiffness, and anxiety. We investigated the combined associations of obesity and physical activity with symptom severity in ISpAs.

Asthma pathophysiology is associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. Mitochondrial DNA copy number (mtDNA-CN) has been used as a proxy of mitochondrial function. Lower levels of mt DNA-CN are associated with asthma diagnosis, severity, and exacerbations.

Study compared race- and ethnicity-specific BMI cutoffs for the three classes of obesity based on equivalent risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D) During a median follow-up of 13.8 years among 507,763 individuals, 5.2% developed T2D.

There has been extensive evidence that aging affects human brain function. However, there is no complete picture of what brain functional changes are mostly related to normal aging and how aging affects brain function similarly and differently between males and females. We employ deep learning with explainable AI to discover primary FCs related to progressive aging.

Fatty acids (FAs) have emerged as significant contributors to tumorigenesis, yet prospective evidence regarding their specific effects on lung cancer risk remains scarce. A cohort study was conducted involving 112,547 cancer-free participants from the UK Biobank. After multivariable adjustment, MUFAs were positively associated with lung cancer. In contrast, PUFAs, particularly n-3 PUF as, were associated with a lower risk.

Cross-sectional study included 31,738 UK Biobank participants with high quality optical coherence tomography (OCT) images. High HDL-C levels were associated with thinner RNFL thickness.

Study aimed to investigate the interplay between genetic susceptibility and socioeconomic disparities on psychiatric disorders. Disadvantaged socioeconomic status was associated with the risk of anxiety and depression across all strata of genetic risk. Strong associations were shown for individuals with greater genetic susceptibility.

The retinal age gap (RAG) is emerging as a potential biomarker for various diseases of the human body. However, training generalizable models is hindered by potential shortages of diverse training data. The proposed framework employs a memory-efficient 8-bit quantized version of RETFound.

Sex disparity between metabolic-obesity (defined by body mass index, BMI) phenotypes and obesity-related cancer (ORC) remains unknown. We aimed to systematically assess the association of our newly proposed metabolic-anthropometric phenotypes with risk of overall and site-specific ORC by sex.

Polygenic risk scores (PRS) derived from European individuals have reduced portability across global populations. We investigated the performance of a wide range of PRS models across four ancestry groups (Africans, Europeans, East Asians, and South Asians) for 14 conditions of high-medical interest.

Both body mass index (BMI) and genetic factors independently contribute to cardiovascular disease (CVD) It is unclear whether genetic risk modifies the association between BMI and the risk of incident CVD. This study aimed to investigate whether BMI categories and genetic risk jointly and interactively contribute to CVD events.

The traditional classification of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) fails to correlate with outcomes among patients with increased LV mass (LVM) Increased LVM was found in 4,255 individuals, with an average age of 64 +/- 7 years. Over a median follow-up period of 5 years (IQR: 4-6), 100 patients (2%) died.

Previous studies have shown that major surgical and medical hospital admissions are associated with cognitive decline in older people. We aimed to validate these findings in a large cohort and investigate associations with neurodegeneration using MRI. We analysed data from the UK Biobank collected from March 13, 2006, to July 16, 2023, linked to the National Health Service Hospital Episode Statistics database.

Lipid-lowering drugs were associated with decreased risk of 21 types of cancers. These included melanoma, skin cancer, and reproductive, hematological, urinary, digestive, nervous, and endocrine system cancers.

We used UK Biobank plasma proteomic data to associate 2,923 plasma proteins with infection mortality before 31st December 2019 (240 events in 52,520 participants) Since many plasma proteins also predict non-infection mortality, we focussed on those associated with >1.5-fold risk of infection mortality in an analysis excluding survivors. Of these, we identified genetically predicted increasing MERTK concentration was associated with increased risk.

Study involved 430,886 participants aged 40 - 69y from UK biobank. Grip strength and walking pace were used as indicators for muscle function. Higher grip strength exhibited a dose-dependent inverse association with incident PAD. Slow walking pace significantly correlated with increased PAD risk.

Traditional association studies of cardiovascular disease (CVD) categorizations and polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) yielded conflicting findings. We propose a novel classification system based on fundamental characteristics of cardiovascular patients. The protective effects of total PUFAs, omega-3 and DHA were mainly reflected in all-cause mortality, and were more significant in Cluster 2 and Cluster 3.

The precise associations between common clinical biomarkers and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) risk remain unclear but hold valuable insights for HCC risk stratification and prediction. We examined the linear and nonlinear associations between the baseline levels of 32 circulating biomarkers. We then developed a point-based risk score to predict HCC.

A child's relative age within their school year ('relative age') is associated with educational attainment and mental health. Hypothesis driven studies often re-examine the same outcomes and exposure, potentially leading to confirmation and reporting biases. We conducted a hypothesis-free investigation of the effects of relative age.

This study investigates the relationship between modifiable risk factors and dementia subtypes using data from 460,799 participants in the UK Biobank. An unfavorable medical history significantly increased the risk of ACD, AD, and VD.

Osteoporosis is a major global health issue, weakening bones and increasing fracture risk. Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) is the standard for measuring bone mineral density. Predictive modeling using genetic and clinical data offers a cost-effective alternative.

 Frailty was associated with an increased risk of chronic liver diseases. Public health strategies should target reducing chronic liver disease risk in frail individuals. Implementing strategies that target frailty could have major public health benefits for liver-related disease prevention.

The association of overweight/obesity and metabolically unhealthy (MU) with the risk of developing Barrett's esophagus (BE) remains uncertain. We analyzed the body mass index (BMI) and metabolic indicators at baseline of 402,510 individuals from the UK Biobank with no history of BE. In Cox regression analyses, both MU and overweight/Obesity were independently associated with BE incidence.

Somatic mutations in the TET2 gene that lead to clonal haematopoiesis (CH) are associated with accelerated atherosclerosis development in mice and a higher risk of atherosclerotic disease in humans. Mechanistically, these observations have been linked to exacerbated vascular inflammation. Study aimed to evaluate whether colchicine, a widely available and inexpensive anti-inflammatory drug, prevents the accelerated Atherosclerosis associated with CH.

 flavonoids are hypothesised to play a role in preventing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma. The objective of this cohort study was to examine associations between flavonoid intake and COPD, asthma and lung function. Compared to low intakes, moderate-high intakes of flavanol monomers were associated with up to an 18% lower risk of incident COPD.

The role of copy number variations (CNVs) in influencing EA/SES/cognition remains unclear. Using a large-scale (n = 305,401) genome-wide CNV-level association analysis, we discovered 33 CNV loci significantly associated with cognition. The genes identified in gene-level tests were enriched in biological pathways such as neurodegeneration, telomere maintenance and axon guidance.

UK Biobank followed 102,424 chronic disease-free participants. 15,672 and 35,801 participants developed 1 and 2+ chronic conditions, respectively. Adherence to a low-inflammatory diet was associated with decreased multimorbidity risk.

Study followed 364,240 participants from UK Biobank aged 40-73 years from 2006 - 2010 to 2021. 29,796 new cases of cardiovascular disease, including 24,797 coronary heart disease and 6229 stroke.

Study included 99,126 participants without depression in the UK Biobank at baseline. The incidence rate of depression was 1.94 per 1000 person-years after an average follow-up of 12.10 years. We found that MVPA and UPF consumption had additive interactions on depression risk.

Malnutrition in people 65 years or over is often cited. This study includes both middle-aged and older adults. Public health policy is highlighting the need to increase disease-free life years.

The role of psychosocial factors in CVD remains underexplored. High levels of social isolation and loneliness were linked to a higher risk of CVD. Mediation analyses pinpointed inflammation as a crucial mediator, especially for loneliness.

The Planetary Health Diet index (PHDI) prioritizes the well-being of both individuals and the planet. But it has yielded mixed results on cardiovascular disease (CVD) Our aim was to assess the association between the PHDI and risk of CVD.

Study sought to elucidate the association of the American Heart Association's Life's Essential 8 (LE8) metrics with the incidence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) among depression participants. 20,832 participants with depression from UK-Biobank were included.

Both ambient air pollution and lifestyle factors contribute to the incidence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) We aimed to assess the joint associations of ambient airpollution and lifestyle with the NAFLD risk. We also investigated whether lifestyle modifies the association of air pollution with the risk.

Our knowledge of the contribution of genetic interactions (epistasis) to variation in human complex traits remains limited. We propose QuadKAST, a scalable algorithm focused on testing pairwise interaction effects (quadratic effects) within small to medium sized sets of genetic variants.

Physical activity (PA) is considered beneficial for lowering cardiovascular risks following type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and prediabetes. We aimed to describe the intensity-specific dose-response associations of PA and sedentary behavior (SB) with macrovascular and microvascular events among individuals with T2DM.

Cancer associations for coding variants in ATM and CHEK2 were evaluated using whole-exome sequence data from UK Biobank linked to cancer registration data (348 488 participants) PTVs in ATM were associated with increased risks of nine cancers at p, while those in CHEk2 were linked to three. The findings can inform genetic counselling of carriers.

Study included 31,229 dementia-free adults from the UK Biobank between the ages of 40 and 70. Prediabetes and diabetes were both associated with significantly higher BAG. Diabetes was further associated with significant increase in BAG over time. Having a healthy lifestyle significantly attenuated the diabetes-BAG association.

Smoking was reinforced as a potent modifiable risk factor for multiple CH types. Males in socially deprived areas of England had lower risk of mosaic loss of chromosome Y. Females with moderate/high alcohol consumption (2-3 drinks/day) had increased mLOX risk.

Gene-environment interaction (G × E) is likely an important influence shaping individual differences in alcohol misuse (AM), yet it has not been extensively studied in molecular genetic research. We carried out GWEIS for four AM phenotypes in the large UK Biobank sample (N = 360,314) with trauma exposure and socioeconomic status (SES) as moderators of the genetic effects.

The associations between one-carbon metabolism (OCM) nutrients (methionine, folate, vitamin B6, and vitamin B12) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains inconclusive. We analyzed data from 192,214 participants who completed at least one 24-hour dietary questionnaire and had no previous history of AD based on the UK Biobank.

As medical imaging technologies advance, these tools are playing a more and more important role in assisting clinical disease diagnosis. Integrating multi-organ imaging with genomic information can significantly enhance the accuracy of disease prediction because many diseases involve both environmental and genetic determinants.

Subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) is caused by rupture of intracranial aneurysm. We aimed to evaluate the association between female hormonal and reproductive factors and SAH.

Fat-to-muscle mass ratio (FMR) has been considered a potentially useful indicator for assessing disease risk. However, the association between FMR and risk of death remains inconclusive. We investigated the associations of FMR with all-cause and cause-specific mortality by sex.

The highly polygenic nature of human longevity renders pleiotropy an indispensable feature of its genetic architecture. We aimed to model the additive variance in lifespan as a function of the cumulative liability from pleiotropic segregating variants. The median lifespan in the highest decile of our composite prognostic index is up to 4.8 years longer.

Study aims to assess the association between intake of different types of fruit (citrus, pomes, tropical fruits, berries, gourds, drupes, dried fruits, and other fruits) and risk of new-onset kidney stones in general population. A total of 205 896 participants with at least one completed 24-h dietary recall from the UK Biobank are included.

Early-onset cancer (diagnosed under age 50) generally manifests as an aggressive disease phenotype. We analyzed a prospective cohort of 66,308 participants who were free of cancer at baseline in the UK Biobank. Higher genetic risk (highest vs lowest tertile of PRS) was associated with significantly increased risks. An unfavorable lifestyle was also associated with higher risk of total cancer and breast cancer in females.

Age at menopause (AOM) has a substantial impact on fertility and disease risk. Many loci with variants that associate with AOM have been identified through genome-wide association studies (GWAS) under an additive model. We found that women homozygous for the stop-gain variant rs117316434(A) in CCDC201 (p.(Arg162Ter) reachedMenopause 9 years earlier than other women (P = 1.3 × 10-15)

Metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MASLD) is the most prevalent chronic liver pathology in western countries. Efforts to identify causal genes for MASLD have been hampered by the relative paucity of human data from gold-standard magnetic resonance quantification of hepatic fat. We created a functional genomic framework to study MASLD genes in vitro using CRISPRi.

Hematuria is an established sign of glomerular disease and can be associated with kidney failure. There has been limited scientific study of this trait. Here, we combined genetic data from the UK Biobank with predicted gene expression and splicing from GTEx kidney cortex samples.

Physical activity has been associated with preventing the development of type 2 diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. We analyzed 3072 serum proteins in 26 men, normal weight or overweight, undergoing 12 weeks of a combined strength and endurance exercise intervention. Serum CD300LG exhibited positive associations with insulin sensitivity and angiogenesis-related gene expression in both muscle and fat.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is responsible for over 30% of mortality worldwide. Mitochondria are crucial in the pathophysiology, development and progression of CVDs. We investigated the role of genetic variants in both mtDNA and nuclear-encoded mitochondrial genes (NEMG) in CVD, including coronary artery disease, hypertension, and serum lipids in the UK Biobank.

Genetically influenced CAD was associated with a higher risk of self-reported chest pain in both men (OR: 1.27, CI:1.2-1.33) and women. In women only, genetically influenced CAD is associated with an increased risk of back pain and neck and shoulder pain. Sensitivity analysis did not indicate the results were biased by directional pleiotropy.

Telomeres protect chromosome ends from damage and their length is linked with human disease and aging. We developed a joint telomere length metric, combining quantitative PCR and whole-genome sequencing measurements from 462,666 UK Biobank participants. This metric increased SNP heritability, suggesting that it better captures genetic regulation of telitere length.

Physical activity has been associated with preventing the development of type 2 diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. We analyzed 3072 serum proteins in 26 men, normal weight or overweight, undergoing 12 weeks of a combined strength and endurance exercise intervention. Serum CD300LG exhibited positive associations with insulin sensitivity and angiogenesis-related gene expression in both muscle and fat.

Heart failure has two major clinical subtypes: HF with reduced (HFrEF) and preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) Blood pressure and lipid profile are established risk factors of HF. We assessed potential causal effects of blood pressures and lipids on HF subtypes.

High cognitive reserve (CR) has been related to lower dementia risk, but its association with heart disease (HD) is unknown. We aimed to explore the relation of CR to HD and cardiac structure and function. High CR was associated with delayed HD onset by 1.59 (95% CI, 1.37-1.82) years compared with low CR.

VQTL association studies are performed on plasma levels of 1463 proteins. A set of 677 independent vQTLs are identified across 568 proteins. Over 1100 GEIs are identified between 101 proteins and 153 environmental exposures.

"Weekend warrior" pattern, characterized by achieving the most moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) over 1-2 days, as opposed to more evenly distributed patterns, was compared. Study looked at 77,977 participants without prior kidney diseases and with usable accelerometer data.

Diabetes mellitus (DM) increases heart failure incidence and worsens prognosis. We aimed to define the diabetic myocardial transcriptome and validate hits in their circulating protein form to define disease mechanisms and biomarkers.

Physical frailty has been found to increase the risk of multiple adverse outcomes including cardiovascular disease (CVD) in diabetic patients. But whether this could be modified by traditional risk factor control remains unknown. We aimed to explore the joint and interaction effects of frailty and traditional riskFactor control on therisk of CVD.

In diabetes mellitus patients, hyperuricemia may lead to the development of diabetic complications, including macrovascular and microvascular dysfunction. The level of blood uric acid in diabetic patients is obtained by sampling peripheral blood from the patient, which is an invasive procedure and not conducive to routine monitoring. We developed deep learning algorithm to detect noninvasively hyperurics from retina photographs and metadata.

This is a cross-sectional study using data from 422,693 UK Biobank participants aged from 40 to 69 years old, during 2006-2010. LTL was measured as the ratio of telomere repeat number to a single-copy gene.

There is a lack of research examining the interplay between objectively measured physical activity volume and intensity with life expectancy. Individuals from UK Biobank with wrist-worn accelerometer data were included. Over a median follow-up of 6.9 years, there were 1719 deaths.

Smoking is a well-known risk factor for atrial fibrillation (AF) But the association of smoking timing with AF risk remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the association between smoking timing and AF risk.

Dietary advanced glycation end products (AGEs) may promote oxidative stress and inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract. The aim of this study is to investigate the association between dietary AGE intake and the risk of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)

The associations of age at diagnosis of breast cancer with incident myocardial infarction (MI) and heart failure (HF) remain unexamined. Addressing this problem could promote understanding of the cardiovascular impact of Breast cancer. Data were obtained from the UK Biobank.

Circulating insulin and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) concentrations are positively correlated with adiposity. However, the causal effects of insulin and IGF-1 on adiposity are unclear. We performed two-sample Mendelian randomization analyses to estimate the likely causal effects.

The influence of air pollution on dynamic changes in clinical state from healthy to atrial fibrillation (AF), further AF-related complications and ultimately, death are unclear. We retrieved 442,150 participants free of heart failure, myocardial infarction (MI), stroke and dementia at baseline from UK Biobank. Over a 12.6-year median follow-up, a total of 21,670 incident AF patients were identified, of whom, 4103 developed complications and 1331 died.

The Prostate, Lung, Colorectal and Ovarian (PLCO) Cancer Screening Trial was conducted from 1993 to 2001 in the United States. FSG screening was significantly associated with a reduction in mortality in both the medium-risk and high-risk groups.

The cerebellum is linked to motor coordination, cognitive and affective processing, in addition to a wide range of clinical illnesses. To enable robust quantification of individual cerebellar anatomy relative to population norms, we mapped the normative development and aging of the Cerebellum across the lifespan.

The associations of age at diagnosis of breast cancer with incident myocardial infarction (MI) and heart failure (HF) remain unexamined. Data were obtained from the UK Biobank. Among breast cancer participants, younger age was significantly associated with elevated risks of MI (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.36)

Osteoarthritis is a prevalent musculoskeletal condition. The role of specific serum biomarkers, such as calcium, vitamin D, and C-reactive protein (CRP), in predicting mortality remains unclear. This observational study analyzed longitudinal data from over 500,000 participants in the UK Biobank.

Apolipoprotein E &#949;4 (APOE4) is a strong genetic risk factor of Alzheimer's disease and metabolic dysfunction. Whether APOE4 and markers of metabolic dysfunction synergistically impact the deterioration of white matter (WM) integrity in older adults remains unknown.

A novel algorithm, AlphaMissense, has been shown to have an improved ability to predict the pathogenicity of rare missense genetic variants. However, it is not known whether Alpha Missense improves the ability of gene-based testing to identify disease-influencing genes.

Short, but not long, sleep duration was linked to a 33% increased risk of HF. Engaging in sufficient PA, especially recommended MVPA or VPA, can partially mitigate this risk.

Current approaches used to identify biological subtypes of major depressive disorder (MDD) mainly focus on clinical characteristics that cannot be linked to specific biological models. Here, we examined multimorbidities to identify MDD subtypes with distinct genetic and non-genetic factors.

Elevated allostatic load (AL) has been associated with the risk and poor prognosis of many chronic diseases. The association between AL and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is unknown. High AL biomarker panel was associated with a greater risk of IBD.

Evidence shows the beneficial effect of adhering to a regular physical activity (PA) pattern on brain health. Whether the 'weekend warrior' pattern, characterized by concentrated moderate-to-vigorous PA (MVPA), is associated with brain health is unclear.

Study involved 9029 men who drank only beer/cider, and 6989 women drinking only red wine. Alcohol consumption was captured by self-reported questionnaire and reported as units per week. Arterial stiffness index (ASI) was estimated using photoplethysmography.

Aims to examine bidirectional association between type 2 diabetes (T2D) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) Participants free of IBS at baseline in the UK Biobank were included in the analysis of T2D and incident IBS.

Imbalances in gut microbiota have been proposed as a potential contributing factor to diabetic complications. However, the causal relationship remains incompletely understood. We found negative associations between Bifidobacterial order and Actinomycete phylum with DKD in type 1 diabetes. Conversely, these taxa showed positive associations with ketoacidosis in type 2 diabetes.

Study looked at relationship between cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) and liver fat content (LFC) CRF was estimated with bicycle ergometer fitness testing. LFC was quantified through liver proton density fat fraction (PDFF)

We conducted this cross-sectional study to investigate the independent associations between lipid metabolites and osteoporotic fractures. Serum lipid, lipoprotein levels and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) based metabolic biomarkers were measured at the baseline. Statistically significant disparities were identified in NMR-based biomarkers among men and women with incident fractures.

Natural polyamines, including spermidine (SPD), spermine (SPM) and putrescine (PUT), are evolutionarily conserved endogenous molecules crucially involved in central cellular processes. Their physiological importance may extend to the maintenance of cognitive function during aging. Few studies have explored the link between dietary polyamines and dementia risk.

Genome-wide association studies have revealed many brain disorder-associated SNPs residing in the noncoding genome. We present an unsupervised Bayesian framework to identify disease-associated genes by integrating risk SNPs with long-range chromatin interactions.

A total of 31 433 participants with prediabetes and diabetes from the UK Biobank were included. Information on the intake of SSBs, ASBs and NJs was accessed by 24-hour dietary recalls from 2009 to 2012. The study outcome was new-onset AF.

Study included 204,847 participants (44.7% males) from the UK Biobank. Over a median follow-up of 9 years, the study documented 1,696 cases of ADRD, 1,093 cases of PD, and 419 neurodegenerative-related deaths. Those with the highest intake of unsweetened and caffeinated coffee (&#8805; 3 cups/day) showed hazard ratios (95% confidence intervals) of 0.75 (0.62, 0.91) for ADRD.

Study looked at association of glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) and serum glucose with intraocular pressure (IOP) Participants were selected from the UK Biobank, excluding those with eye conditions that may affect IOP. Those with diabetes had higher IOP and a higher prevalence of ocular hypertension.

Study examined the association between ultra-processed food (UPF) consumption and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) Study included 207,012 participants without RA at recruitment and completed 24 h dietary recalls. There was a 6% elevated risk of RA incidence per SD increase in UPF intake.

Some observational studies suggest a lower mortality associated with higher BMI. Using BMI-associated genetic variants can avoid these biases and generate more valid estimates. Future studies should be designed carefully to produce unbiased estimates that account for reverse causation.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common heart arrhythmia worldwide. It is linked to a higher risk of mortality and morbidity. To predict AF and AF-related complications, clinical risk scores are commonly employed. But their predictive accuracy is generally limited, given the complexity of patients with AF.

We used CatBoost machine learning to model and discover biomarkers of depression in UK Biobank data sets. Of the nine diagnostic models for depression, the performance of the traditional risk factor model was improved after the addition of proteomic data. KEGG pathway analysis of 45 screened proteins showed that the most significant pathway involved was the cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction.

The role of main work during the life course in predicting frailty, a typical geriatric syndrome, is still largely unknown. We aimed to investigate the potential association between the main work done during. the life with frailty and pre-frailty among participants 60 years and older of the UK Biobank study.

VAT is recognized as an important target for cancer prevention. Despite the recognized role of visceral adipose tissue (VAT) in carcinogenesis, its independent association with cancer risk beyond traditional obesity measures remains unknown.

Fruit consumption has been associated with a lower cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk but the underlying mechanisms are unclear. We investigated the cross-sectional and prospective associations of fruit consumption with markers of adiposity, blood pressure, lipids, low-grade inflammation, glycaemia, and oxidative stress.

Allometric body shape index (ABSI) and hip index (HI), as well as multi-trait body shape phenotypes, have not yet been compared in their associations with inflammatory markers. The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between novel and traditional anthropometric indexes with inflammation using data from the EPIC and UK Biobank cohorts.

Finemap-MiXeR is a novel method for finemapping causal variants from GWAS summary statistics. It controls for correlation among variants due to linkage disequilibrium. The method is computationally efficient in several aspects.

Perimenopause (that is, the years around the final menstrual period (FMP) is associated with increased risk of developing psychiatric disorders compared with the late reproductive stage. Information on menopausal timing and psychiatric history was obtained from nurse-administered interviews and online questionnaires from 128,294 female participants within UK Biobank. Incidence rates of psychiatric disorders were compared to the reference premenopausal period.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative influenced by various clinical factors. The potential relationship between renal function and the risk of PD remains poorly understood. This study aims to explore the association between kidney function and risk of developing PD.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a debilitating neurodegenerative disorder. The rising global incidence highlights the need for the identification of modifiable risk factors. In a gene-based burden test of rare variants, we discovered a novel association between loss-of-function variants in ITSN1 and PD.

A number of studies have explored the link between neurodegenerative disorders (NDDs) and albumin, the main protein in human plasma. The results have been inconsistent, highlighting the necessity for a detailed systemic analysis. We investigated the relationship between baseline levels of serum and urine albumin and the occurrence of common NDDs.

Despite numerous studies investigating the association between androgenetic alopecia (AGA) and serum uric acid (SUA), the causal relationship between AGA and SUA remains unknown. We utilized bidirectional Mendelian randomization (MR) to explore the causality between SUA and AGA. We chose single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with genome-wide significance.

High levels of device-measured physical activity were associated with cardiac remodelling within normal ranges. Associations with MVPA were also observed for the right ventricle and the left/right atria, with an inverse association observed for LV ejection fraction.

The triglyceride-glucose (TyG) index performs better at reflecting insulin resistance when combined with waist circumference (WC), body mass index (BMI), and waist-to-height ratio (WHtR) than when used alone. This study aimed to prospectively examine the relationships between TyG, TyG-BMI, Tyg-WC, and TyG -WHtr with the incidence of myocardial infarction (MI) and its subtypes.

The study included 202,063 UK Biobank participants conducted between 2006 and 2022. It found the highest quintile for hPDI and uPDI were associated with an increased risk of osteoporosis. BMI was identified as an important mediator in the association.

Genome-wide association study (GWAS) data on sarcopenia-associated traits including appendicular lean mass, low handgrip strength, and usual walking speeds were obtained from the UK Biobank. MR analysis showed that high appendicularLean mass was positive associated with the risk of developing benign neoplasm of bone and articular cartilage. At the same time there is no statistically significant association was found of traits related sarcopenian to malignant neoplasms.

Despite a proposed causal role for low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in aortic stenosis (AS), randomized controlled trials of lipid-lowering therapy failed to prevent severe AS. We aimed to assess the impact on AS and peak velocity across the aorta conferred by lifelong alterations in LDL-C levels mediated by protein-disrupting variants in three genes for LDL metabolism.

Long-term breast cancer survivors are known to develop second malignancies. Second primary lung cancer (SPLC) is one common type. Smoking was identified as a main risk factor for SPLC among BC survivors.

The rate of AdSD in the cervical or lumbar spine will be less than 3% annually after primary fusion. Unemployed/Retired status achieved significance as a risk factor for AdSD. BMI, age, gender, race, tobacco use, area deprivation, and osteoporosis were not significant.

The study looked at the impact of COVID-19 on the long-term risk of gastrointestinal and hepatobiliary outcomes and other digestive abnormalities in various follow-up periods. The risk profile was most pronounced during the initial 3 months, but persisted for >6 months in validation cohorts, but not in the discovery cohort.

This study aimed to investigate the associations between carbohydrate intake and gout risk. We included 187,387 participants who were free of gout at baseline and completed at least one dietary assessment in the UK Biobank. Over a median follow-up of 11.69 years, 2548 incident cases of gouts were recorded. Total carbohydrate intake was associated with a reduced gout. risk.

Fish oil use was inversely associated with the incidence of CKD (HR 0.90; 95% CI: 0.83, 0.97) Risk was mediated by serum levels of HbA1c, CRP and HDL-C.

Alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD) is a public health concern. ALD patients often have psychiatric comorbidities, but the effects of psychiatric interventions on ALD are not well-established. This study explores the prognostic impact of psychiatric intervention on ALd within UK Biobank cohort.

Study aimed to elucidate the causal relationship between Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) and Chronic Respiratory Diseases (CRDs) Data were sourced from the FinnGen Consortium and UK Biobank. No significant causal links were found between OSA and other CRDs.

Eating whole grains, fruits and vegetables lowered the risk of dementia by 31%, study finds. That benefit held true even for people with existing diagnoses of cardiometabolic conditions. Brain scans of those who followed an anti-inflammatory diet showed significantly lower levels of neurodegeneration and vascular injury.

HFE p.C282Y+/+ (homozygous) genotype and central adiposity both increase liver disease and diabetes risks, but combined effects are unclear. We estimated waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) associations with incident clinical outcomes in routine care in the UK Biobank community cohort. We found positive linear WHR relationships for hospital inpatient diagnosed liver fibrosis/cirrhosis, liver cancer, and type 2 diabetes.

We conducted pre-diagnostic metabolome-wide analyses among 249,677 UK Biobank participants. 107 metabolites were associated with incidence of hospitalized gout (N=2735) before urate adjustment. Findings persisted when including non-hospitalised incident gout cases.

Study looked at extent to which joint risk factor control might attenuate the excess risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD) in participants with obesity. The optimal controlling of all six risk factors was associated with a 49% decrease in risk of CKD. The protective correlations were more pronounced in men compared with women.

Diet-disease association studies increasingly use dietary patterns (DPs) to account for the complexity of the exposure. We assessed if a DP associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus, CVD, and all-cause mortality is also associated with colorectal cancer. DP1 was characterised by increased intake of chocolate and confectionery.

The association between physical activity and venous thromboembolism (VTE) remains unclear. In the UK Biobank, 1,182 incident VTE cases were documented during a median follow-up of 6.18 years. The participants in the highest quartiles of total volume of physical activity had lower adjusted HRs (95% CIs) for VTE than those of the lowest quartiles.

Liver expression quantitative-trait locus (eQTL) meta-analysis data on 1,183 participants. We found 9,013 eQTL signals for 6,564 genes; 23% of eGenes had two signals, and 6% had three or more signals. Isolating signals by conditional analysis prior to coloc resulted in 37% more colocalizations.

Previous research on the association between physical activity (PA) and kidney function is inconsistent. Increasing PA is modestly associated with improving annual eGFR CysC and reduced risk of RDKF.

Proteomics and metabolomics offer substantial potential for advancing kidney transplant research. To achieve this, adequate quality and numbers of biological samples are required. Rich, yet unverified resources of recipient material are the serum repositories present in the immunological laboratories of kidney transplant centers.

Sex-based differences in cardiovascular health (CVH) and the incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) among women at different menopausal stages and men. The Accelerated Failure Time model assessed the impact of CVH on the time to T2DM onset.

Constipation shares common risk factors with hypertension and is associated with an increased risk of several cardiovascular diseases. Traditional cardiovascular risk factors, including hypertension, only explain part of major adverse cardiac events (MACE) Understanding what other risk factors contribute to MACE is essential for prevention.

Recent observational and Mendelian randomization analyses have reported significant effects of very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (VLDL-C) on risk that is independent of ApoB. In the UK Biobank, Apo B was highly correlated with VLDL -C. The independent effect of HDL-C remained robust (HR, 0.86;  P  P =0.029)

 psoriasis is characterized by erythema and scaly skin lesions. There is a causal relationship between anti-Epstein Barr virus antibody and Psoriasis. The underlying immunological mechanism also provides a new perspective for experimental research.

Constipation is common in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) But its impact on incident PD remains uncertain. We aimed to prospectively investigate constipation symptoms and the risk of PD.

Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) is a major subtype of non-small cell lung cancer with a high mortality rate. Identifying plasma proteins associated with LUSC could provide new insights into the pathophysiology of the disease and potential therapeutic targets. HSPA1L, PCSK7, POLI, SPINK2, TCL1A, and VARS were identified as potentially causal for LUSc risk.

This study evaluated the association between physical activity and the risk of sepsis. It was based on whole-genome association study data from the UK Biobank and the FinnGen database. It found that the risk was significantly inversely associated with genetically predicted MVPA and VPA.

 magnesium deficiency is linked to higher cardiovascular disease risk, but its association with chronic kidney disease (CKD) remains unclear. This study aimed to evaluate the relationship between dietary magnesium intake and CKD development in adults with clinically normal kidney function.

Ischemic heart disease (IHD) is the single leading cause of mortality globally. Statins are the mainstay for IHD treatment. However, the specific mechanisms underlying statins' benefits on IHD have not been clarified. To examine the mechanisms through proteins, we used two-step Mendelian randomization approach.

Air pollution has been linked to gastrointestinal (GI) diseases, but their relationship remains unclear. We extracted significantly modulated genes and CpG sites related to air pollution (PM2.5, PM10, and NOx) and transportation noise pollution (aircraft, railway, and traffic road noise) Genome-wide methylation analysis and colocalization analysis were performed to disentangle the relationship between pollution-related blood DNA methylation (DNAm) alterations and GI diseases risk.

Study examined relationship between major plasma n6 PUFA, linoleic acid (LA), and total and cause-specific mortality. Comparing LA Q5 to Q1, the hazard ratio (HR, 95% CI) for total mortality was 0.80 (0.76, 0.84)

Population-based cohort study analyzed UK Biobank participants with whole-exome sequencing, electrocardiogram, and cardiovascular magnetic resonance data. A likely pathogenic/pathogenic (LP/P) TTR variant was detected in 473 (0.1%) participants, with Val142Ile being the most prevalent. LP/P variants were associated with higher left ventricular mass indexed to body surface area.

The relationship between serum lipids and sarcopenia remains unclear due to conflicting results in previous studies. Data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) were analysed using multivariable regression and restricted cubic splines. Elevated TG, but not HDL-C, LDL-C or TC levels, was significantly associated with an increased risk of sarc Openia.

Air pollution, particularly fine particulate matter and gaseous pollutants including NO 2 and NO x, presents significant public health challenges. While the harmful effects of these pollutants are well-documented, the molecular mechanisms underlying their impact on health remain incompletely understood.

Congenital long QT syndrome (LQTS) diagnosis is complicated by limited genetic testing at scale, low prevalence, and normal QT corrected interval. We developed a deep learning approach combining electrocardiogram (ECG) waveform and electronic health record data.

Individuals with psychiatric disorders have been reported to have elevated levels of inflammatory biomarkers. This study assessed associations between inflammation biomarkers and subsequent psychiatric disorders risk. Leukocytes, haptoglobin, CRP, and IgG were associated with a subsequent risk of psychiatric disorders.

Prostate cancer remains the second leading cause of cancer death in men in the United States. We set out to identify germline variants associated with cases of lethal prostate cancer (LPCa) We compared whole-exome sequencing data of 550 LPCa patients to 488 healthy male controls.

Artificial intelligence (AI)-enabled electrocardiography (ECG) can be used to predict risk of future disease and mortality but has not yet been adopted into clinical practice. Existing model predictions do not have actionability at an individual patient level, explainability, or biological plausibi. We sought to address these limitations by developing the AI-ECG risk estimator (AIRE) platform.

 Classical gene-by-environment interaction (GxE) analysis can be used to characterize genetic effect heterogeneity but has a high multiple testing burden in the context of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) We adapt a colocalization method, SharePro, to account for effect heterogeneity in fine-mapping and identify candidates for GxE analysis with reduced multiple testing burdens. SharePro demonstrates improved power for both fine- mapping and G xE analysis compared to existing methods.

Study assesses the validity of a self-reported clinical diagnosis of schizophrenia. Polygenic risk scores (PRS) and phenotypes relating to demographics, education and employment were compared across diagnostic groups.

TM6SF2 -rs58542926-T is associated with increased cirrhosis and modestly decreased coronary artery disease prevalence. The relative effects of TM6 SF2 genotype on major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) vs. liver-related events (LRE) is not known. We utilized the UK Biobank, a prospective cohort with genetic and inpatient diagnosis data.

Study aims to explore whether conventional and emerging biomarkers could improve risk discrimination and calibration in secondary prevention of recurrent atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) We analysed any improvement in C indices and net reclassification index (NRI) for future ASCVD events.

Cardiometabolic multimorbidity (CMM) and aging are increasing public health concerns. This prospective study used UK Biobank cohort to investigate relationship between biological aging and the trajectory of CMM to dementia and mortality.

Previous genome-wide association studies of depression have primarily focused on common variants, limiting our comprehensive understanding of the genetic architecture. We identified 22 genes associated with depressive symptoms, including 6 newly discovered genes (TRIM27, UBD, SVOP, ADGRB2, IRF2BPL, and ANKRD12)

Previous studies have shown inconsistent associations between serum lipids and the risks of fractures and osteoporosis in the general population. This prospective cohort study analysed data from 414 302 UK Biobank participants.

Kidney insufficiency is defined as the early stage of heart failure. Mendelian randomization analyses based on several large heart failure cohorts suggest no linear causal effect between kidney function and heart failure (HF) However, whether there is a non-linear causal relationship between kidneyfunction and HF has not been reported.

Cognitive reserve (CR) has been linked to dementia, yet its influence on the risk of depression and related outcomes remains unknown. We aimed to examine the association of CR with depression and subsequent dementia or death, and to assess the extent to which CR is related to depression-free survival. A comprehensive CR indicator (low, moderate, and high) was created using latent class analysis.

Automated algorithms are regularly used to analyse cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) images. We outline a visual quality control (VQC) process for image analysis using automated batch processing. We assess the performance of automated analysis and the reliability of replacing visual checks with statistical outlier (SO) removal approach.

CKD is highly prevalent among people with diabetes. There is limited evidence on dietary risk factors for CKD. We examined the associations between healthy and less healthy plant-based diets (PBDs) and the risk of CKD among those with diabetes and to identify potential underlying mechanisms.

30% of adults globally suffer from sleep disorders. There are few longitudinal studies on the association between vitamin C and these disorders. We enrolled 68,221 participants from the UK Biobank. Vitamin C intake at the Q4 level (132.88-191.51 mg/d) was significantly associated with a reduced risk of sleep disorders, with an HR (95% CI) of 0.78.

Synthetic data promise privacy-preserving data sharing for healthcare research and development. Compared with other privacy-enhancing approaches, analyses performed on synthetic data can be applied downstream without modification.

The triglyceride (TG) content of low-density lipoprotein (LDL-TG) has been shown to be more predictive of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) events than the cholesterol content of LDL. The study was to develop an equation for estimating LDL-TG based on the standard lipid panel and to compare it to estimated LDL-C as a risk biomarker.

Gestational diabetes mellitus is associated with a higher risk of cardiovascular diseases, but the causality remains unclear. This study investigated the relationship between genetic predisposition to gestational diabetes and the risk of coronary artery disease. Type 2 diabetes and hypertension were identified as mediators of the relationship.

Body composition at early and middle age may be indicative of the risk of MND development. We performed a cohort study in the UK Biobank to assess the association of developmental body metrics and premorbid body composition measures.

Previous studies have established that rare biallelic SYNJ1 mutations cause autosomal recessive parkinsonism and Parkinson's disease (PD) We analyzed 8165 PD cases, 818 early-onset-PD (EOPD,   20) in the Sac1 SY NJ1 domain and PD (Pfdr = 0.040)

Shapley values have been used extensively in machine learning. Recently, feature selection methods using predictive Shapley values and p-values have been introduced, including powershap. We present a novel feature selection method, LLpowershap, that takes forward these recent advances.

Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) is the most ubiquitous parameter in cardiac imaging examinations. This is a prospective cohort study based on UK Biobank. Incident cardiovascular disease was the outcome, including heart failure, atrial fibrillation, ischemic heart disease, and myocardial infarction. A U-shaped relationship was observed between quantified LVEF and cardiovascular events risk.

Rosuvastatin and atorvastatin are the most widely prescribed moderate- to high-intensity statins. Evidence on their efficacy and safety during actual use is limited. This study found differences in risks for some important outcomes.

Arterial stiffness is a powerful independent risk factor for adverse cardiovascular events. Age and raised blood pressure (BP) are major contributors to increased arterial stiffness. Arterial Stiffness Index (ASI) simplifies the assessment of stiffness using a pulse waveform.

Heart failure is a common cardiovascular complication to diabetes. Increased fibrosis of the myocardium has been suggested to be a mechanism. No convincing clinical evidence has so far been presented. A better understanding of how myocardial tissue characteristics influence functional aberration in diabetes could aid diagnosis and treatment.

UK Biobank data was used for observational analysis. Cox proportional hazard models were used to quantify the observational associations between liver enzymes and risks of 1109 diseases. Two-sample MR was performed to replicate the identified observational associations. In MR, 52 associations were replicated (10 for ALP, 14 for ALT, 10 for AST and 18 for GGT)

Obesity has been associated with risk of atrial fibrillation (AF), but once AF is established, it seems to be favorable. Body mass index (BMI) does not distinguish between fat and lean body mass, and could lead to the potential misclassification of risk categories. A total of 8,325 patients with AF at baseline were included in the prospective cohort study using UK biobank data.

Cardiac contractility index (CCI) is a simple non-invasive measure of myocardial contractility defined by systolic blood pressure divided by indexed left ventricular end-systolic volume. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) is essential for phenotyping patients with suspected heart failure (HF) It is load dependent and insensitive to subtle subclinical ventricular dysfunction. We explored the relationship between CCI and laboratory and imaging biomarkers, including LVEF and LV strain.

Having a larger body size at age 10 was strongly associated with being overweight or obese in adulthood. Similar patterns were observed for colorectal, endometrial, kidney, pancreatic and esophageal cancer. Maintaining a healthy weight in adulthood may help mitigate the risk of obesity-related cancers.

People who recalled maltreatment in childhood are at higher risk of T2D in adulthood, partly due to obesity. Excess T2d risk among those reporting maltreatment could be reduced by 39% if their BMI was comparable to participants who had not been maltreated, assuming causality.

Identifying genetic drivers of chronic diseases is necessary for drug discovery. We develop a machine learning-assisted genetic priority score, which we call ML-GPS. It incorporates genetic associations with predicted disease phenotypes to enhance target discovery.

PWAS (proteome-wide association study) is an innovative genetic association approach that complements widely used methods like GWAS. Results from PWAS cover 99 common diseases and conditions, each with over 10,000 diagnosed individuals per phenotype.

Study included 147,188 participants with hypertension and complete data on modifiable risk factors from the UK Biobank. Health score was constructed from eight modifiablerisk factors, including four lifestyle behaviors and four cardiometabolic factors. biomarkers including inflammation and renal function collectively explained 46.60% of the associations between the combined lifestyle factors and infectious disease risk.

UK Biobank dementia-free participants were followed from one year after recruitment (median date: 24 January, 2010) until 31 October, 2022. Psychosocial states were measured by 22 items related to five dimensions. We identified clusters of individuals with distinct psychosocial patterns using latent class analysis.

This study aims to identify colorectal cancer (CRC)-related proteomic profiles and develop a prediction model for CRC onset. We integrate proteomic. profiles with genetic and non-genetic factors (QCancer-15) to improve the risk stratification and estimate. of personalized initial screening age.

Patients heterozygous for germline CBL loss-of-function (LOF) variants can develop myeloid malignancy, autoinflammation, or both. We observed an upregulation of the inflammatory gene expression signature in whole blood from these patients. These patients had constitutively activated monocytes that secreted 10 to 100 times more inflammatory cytokines.

Study examined the relationship between the number of live births and bipolar disorder and major depression. Cross-sectional study utilized data from >55,000 women in the UK Biobank. Results indicated that live births serve as an independent protective factor against BDMD.

Gout is a chronic disease that is caused by an innate immune response to deposited monosodium urate crystals in the setting of hyperuricemia. Here, we provide insights into the molecular mechanism of the poorly understood inflammatory component of gout. We detected 377 loci and 410 genetically independent signals (149 previously unreported loci in urate and gout)

Adiposity is an established risk factor for multiple diseases. causal relationships of different adiposity types with circulating protein biomarkers have not been systematically investigated. Genetically-predicted body mass index (BMI), body fat percentage (BF%), waist circumference (WC), and waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) are significantly lower in Chinese adults.

A potential protective role of cognitive reserve proxies against frailty has been suggested in older adults. We explored the cross-sectional association between cognitive reserve indicators and frailty phenotype. Data were obtained from the UK Biobank.

The role of environmental factors in stroke has received public attention in the last few centuries. Air quality and ambient temperature are the most common types. This study aimed to investigate the effects of long-term air pollution and ambient temperatures on the occurrence of ischemic stroke.

Tonsillectomy was associated with a lower risk of mild (odds ratio [95% confidence interval]: 0.80 [0.75-0.86]) and severe COVID-19 in the UK Biobank. The associations did not differ substantially by sex, age or Townsend deprivation index. Levels of blood inflammatory, lipid and metabolic biomarkers did, however, not differ greatly by history of surgical removal of tonsils.

Time spent sitting above 10 h/day was associated with both higher orthostatic circulatory disease and major CVD risk. Time spent standing was not associated with major CVB risk. The deleterious associations of overall stationary time were primarily driven by sitting.

Study included 7248 adults with diabetes from the UK Biobank who had complete dietary data. 565 (7.8%) participants developed new-onset CKD during a median follow-up of 11.96 years. Inverse relationship of dietary Mn intake with CKD found in people with diabetes at glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and#8805;6.5%.

Severe coronary artery disease (CAD) represents an advanced arterial narrowing, often associated with critical complications like myocardial infarction and angina. Study aimed to comprehensively investigate determinants of severe and multi-vessel CAD manifestations.

Aortic aneurysms are an important clinical problem. High-resolution 3D CMR sequences allow detailed aortic assessment. But they are time-consuming which limits their use in screening routine cardiac scans and in population studies. A new method of producing isotropic 3D aorti segmentations from routine CMR 2D anisotropic localizers shows good agreement with segmentation made directly from 3D isotropics.

Systemic changes in multiple diseases may influence the onset of dementia. The specific temporality between exposure diseases and dementia remains uncertain. This study aims to yield a global picture of precursor diseases to dementia and to provide detailed instructions for risk management.

We explored the association between history of traumatic brain injury with cognitive performance and imaging measures of white matter integrity. Traumatic brain injury was associated with poorer cognitive and imaging phenotypes. The strongest deleterious associations were for narrow-band injury.

Metabolic abnormality has a stronger association with dementia than obesity. Metabolically abnormal non-obesity and obesity are associated with higher risks of incident dementia. Recovering from an abnormal metabolic status to normal reduces the risk of dementia in populations without obesity.

The hippocampus, with its complex subfields, is linked to numerous neuropsychiatric traits. Given the hippocampus's high heritability, considering hippocampal and subfield volumes (HASV) as endophenotypes is essential. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) on 24 HASV traits were conducted. Gene set analysis revealed enrichment of neural differentiation and signaling pathways.

White matter (WM) brain age, a neuroimaging-derived biomarker indicating WM microstructural changes, helps predict dementia and neurodegenerative disorder risks. The cumulative effect of chronic stress on WM brain aging remains unknown. We assessed cumulative stress using a multi-system composite allostatic load (AL) index.

 Depression is a modifiable risk factor for dementia. It remains unclear whether there are sex differences in how depression affects dementia risk. Women reported greater depression severity than men. Hippocampal volumes found to mediate the relationship between depression severity and fluid intelligence only in women.

Noninvasive tools (NITs) are currently used to stratify the risk of having or developing hepatic steatosis or fibrosis. Their performance and a proteomic-enabled improvement in forecasting long-term cardio-renal-metabolic morbidity, malignancies and all-cause mortality are lacking.

There is uncertainty about the associations between moderate alcohol consumption and liver-related outcomes. We aimed to explore the associations of moderate drinking with cirrhosis, steatotic liver disease (SLD), and liver cancer in a large cohort study. Compared with non-drinkers, moderate drinkers had a lower risk of SLD.

We aimed to identify ethnicity-specific BMI and waist circumference cutoffs for cardiovascular disease (CVD) and to define optimal thresholds for CVD risk and subjective wellbeing (SWB) We used data from 296,767 UK Biobank participants and adjusted logistic and linear regression models.

Cancer survivors have an increased risk of incident heart failure (HF) attributable to shared risk factors and cancer treatment-induced cardiac dysfunction. Selection for HF screening depends on risk assessment, but the optimal means of assessing risk is undefined.

Myocardial Infarction (MI) and severe mental disorders (SMDs) are two types of highly prevalent and complex disorders. The contributions of common and rare genetic variants to their comorbidity arestill unclear.

Study looked at 73,630 adults aged 40-79 years in the UK Biobank accelerometer substudy. Participants wore wrist-attached accelerometers for a duration of 7 days, which was used to compute the Sleep Regularity Index (SRI) Compared with regular sleepers, irregular sleepers were at higher risk of T2D incidence.

Allostatic load (AL) is an objective measure of the biological components of chronic stress within clinical practice. This study investigates the association between AL and these mental disorders. High AL is positively associated with increased risks of depression, anxiety, and suicide.

Aspirin was not associated with increased risk of overall (hazard ratio (HR): 1.11, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.95-1.27,  P  = 0.188) or fatal ICH. Subgroup analysis indicated that aspirin use in individuals older than 65 years or with concurrent anticoagulant use was correlated with increased ICH risk.

Acute pancreatitis (AP) is a complex disease most commonly caused by gallstones, alcohol intake, or hypertriglyceridemia. Identifying individuals with a high genetic susceptibility to AP could contribute to a better risk stratification in the clinic.

Chronic inflammation is associated with the etiology of various cancers. There is a lack of systematic research in urologic cancers. This study aims to use a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) approach to evaluate the role of circulating cytokines.

Race and SES were important determinants of brain volumetric outcomes, with partial mediation of racial/ethnic disparities through SES, lifestyle, health-related, and cognition factors. Over 20% of the total effect (TE) of race/ethnicity on WMH was explained by the indirect effect.

Study aimed to identify low- and high-risk diabetes groups within prediabetes populations using data from the Taiwan Biobank. High-risk groups strongly associated male gender, higher BMI, smoking, and metabolic markers. Tailored preventive strategies, particularly for young males in Taiwan, are crucial to reducing T2D risk.

Study used UK Biobank data to find the genetic determinants of COVID-19 vaccine-induced seropositivity and breakthrough infections. Findings confirmed link between HLA region and seroconversion after first and second doses.

MVPA is a measure of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity in the UK Biobank study. Risk reductions in all-cause mortality and CVD incidence can be achieved with as little as 10 and 15 min of MVPA per week, respectively. The highest additional benefit of adding more minutes per week was observed between 100 and 250 weekly minutes.

Stroke risk factors may contribute to cognitive decline and dementia by altering brain tissue integrity. If their effects on brain are nonnegligible, the target regions for stroke rehabilitation with brain stimulation may be biased due to the pre-existing brain differences caused by these risk factors. Here, we investigated the effects of stroke risk factors on cortical thickness and surface area in individuals without a history of stroke.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) and rare monogenic variant screening are valuable tools for predicting cancer risk. Integrating both common and rare genetic variants is crucial for accurate risk assessment. Individuals in high-PRS groups with rare high-impact gene variants show up to 15- and 22-fold higher risk for breast and prostate cancers.

COVID-19 is associated with acute risk of major adverse cardiac events (MACE), including myocardial infarction, stroke, and mortality (all-cause) However, the duration and underlying determinants of heightened risk of cardiovascular disease and MACE post-CO VID-19 are not known. Data from the UK Biobank was used to identify COVID- 19 cases and population controls.

Study aimed to assess the effect of physical activity, APOE genotype, and sex on AD risk, brain volume, and cognition. UK Biobank data from 2006 to 2023 was accessed. Higher self-reported and accelerometer-assessed physical activity was associated with lower disease incidence.

Up to 17% of cancer survivors have been reported to develop second primary cancers (SPC) Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) is characterized by its polymorphism and has been associated with various diseases. This study aims to explore the role of HLA diversity in SPC incidence.

Polygenic risk score (PRS) is a major research topic in human genetics. A significant gap exists between PRS methodology and applications in practice due to often unavailable individual-level data. We introduce an innovative statistical framework to optimize and benchmark PRS models.

It remains unclear how retinal images contribute to CVD risk profiling and how the results can inform lifestyle modifications. We aimed to determine the performance of cardiovascular risk prediction model from retina images. We developed a deep learning model to predict 5-year MACE using a two-stage DL neural network.

Study aims to evaluate the association between adverse events at varying life stages and the risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD) Study included 140,997 participants from the UK Biobank. Compared with the "low-level exposure" pattern, "child-to-adulthood exposure" was associated with increased risk of CKD.

As men age, circulating testosterone (T) decreases, circulating sex-hormone binding globulin (SHBG) increases. It is unclear if circulating T, independently of comorbidities, is associated with fracture risk in men.

The vitamin K-dependent coagulation factor protein Z (PZ), encoded by the PROZ gene, is canonically considered to have anticoagulant effects through negative regulation of factor Xa. Paradoxically, higher circulating PZ concentrations have repeatedly been associated with an elevated risk of acute ischemic stroke.

We consider the problem of combining multiple biomarkers to improve the diagnostic accuracy of detecting a disease. We propose a pairwise model fitting approach to estimate the distribution of the optimal linear combination of biomarkers. The approach is evaluated in simulation studies and applied to data on chlamydia detection and COVID-19 diagnosis.

The role of environmental factors, particularly air pollutants, in the prevalence of sarcopenia remains unclear. This study explored the relationship between the prevalence and exposure to air pollutants. It also investigated potential interactions with genetic susceptibility and inflammation.

Age-related decline in circulating serum testosterone concentrations is a well-established phenomenon in men. While the decline is partially linked to comorbidities such as obesity, type 2 diabetes (T2D), and cardiovascular disease (CVD), healthy ageing men present with rather stable levels. Recent genetic mapping studies demonstrated a large influence of common genetic variation on testosterone levels.

Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) is an autosomal dominant disease associated with increased risk for developing hemangioblastomas of the central nervous system and retina. Little is known about the systemic effects of VHL alterations on the cardiometabolic system. Aim Study whether VHL gene variants are associated with an increased cardiometric risk.

The plasma proteome holds promise as a future diagnostic and prognostic tool. We assessed the ability of plasma proteins to associate with two primary risk factors of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and to predict incident T2DM.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with heterogeneous atrophy patterns. We identified two latent dimensional representations of brain atrophy in symptomatic mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and AD patients. In early asymptomatic stages, the two dimensions are associated with diverse pathological mechanisms.

This prospective cohort study analyzed 268,184 individuals from the UK Biobank. Biological age was estimated using phenotypic age (PhenoAge), Klemera-Doubal methods (KDM-BA), and telomere length. The metabolic heterogeneity of obesity can be evaluated by four BMI metabolic phenotypes.

Age-related decline in circulating serum testosterone concentrations is a well-established phenomenon in men. While the decline is partially linked to comorbidities such as obesity, type 2 diabetes (T2D), and cardiovascular disease (CVD), healthy ageing men present with rather stable levels. Recent genetic mapping studies demonstrated a large influence of common genetic variation on testosterone levels.

Age-related decline in circulating serum testosterone concentrations is a well-established phenomenon in men. While the decline is partially linked to comorbidities such as obesity, type 2 diabetes (T2D), and cardiovascular disease (CVD), healthy ageing men present with rather stable levels. Recent genetic mapping studies demonstrated a large influence of common genetic variation on testosterone levels.

Study analyzed the associations of the Dietary Inflammatory Index, physical activity, and sleep on biological aging and all-cause mortality. Maintaining an anti-inflammatory diet and engaging in at least moderate physical activity are associated with delayed physiological aging. However, the level of physical activity recommended by the World Health Organization does not achieve the optimal effect in delaying biological aging.

Study comprised 452 131 individuals from the UK Biobank with glycated hemoglobin A1C (HbA 1c ) and eBMD levels. Fracture risk was highest in individuals with T1D and ICD (HR 2.84, 95%CI [2.53, 3.19]), followed by those with ACD. Evidence for a non-linear association between Hb a 1c and fracture risk was observed.

There is a lack of prospective evidence to clarify the direction of their associations. We included 430,414 participants from UK Biobank and followed them from recruitment (2006-2010) to 2021. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma cases were obtained from inpatient data and death register.

The association of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] and genetic polymorphisms of the vitamin D receptor (VDR) with incident abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) remains uncertain. In this study, 2,042 participants developed incident AAA during a median follow-up of 12.5 years. There was a significant inverse association between serum 25( OH)D and AAA incidence, particularly among individuals with higher genetic risk for AAA, older age, and without diabetes.

Associations of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids (FAs) with cardiovascular disease (CVD) remain controversial. We aimed to investigate the prospective associations of objectively measured FAs with CVD, including incident coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke.

The role of rare non-coding variation in complex human phenotypes is still largely unknown. We performed a whole-genome sequencing association analysis for height using 333,100 individuals from three datasets.

Visceral adiposity index (VAI) is a marker of visceral fat accumulation and metabolic dysfunction. There is limited evidence of its association with cancer. The VAI was associated with six cancer sites and with all-cause cancer.

Study aims to investigate associations of metabolic syndrome (MetS) with cognitive function, dementia and its subtypes. MetS was associated with poorer cognitive performance and might increase the risk of all-cause dementia as well as vascular dementia.

Aging plays an important role in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) But the association between accelerated biological age and T2DM remains unclear. This study aimed to examine the associations of biological aging with T2 DM, and explore the potential mediation effect of amino acids.

Child maltreatment (CM) is a critical aspect of early-life adversity with long-lasting impacts. All types of CMs, except physical neglect, significantly increase the risk of chronic pain. Biopsychosocial factors are found to explain over 60% of the association between CM and CP.

Gene-based burden tests are a popular and powerful approach for analysis of exome-wide association studies. Correlation between these tests can complicate the multiple testing correction. We introduce a method called the sparse burden association test (SBAT) that tests the joint set of burden scores.

Bipolar disorder (BD) is linked to an increased risk of neurodegenerative diseases such as dementia and Parkinson disease. The extent to which the associations could be explained by BD-related medications (antipsychotics, lithium, and antiepileptics) was unknown.

Carotid intima-media thickness (cIMT) is valuable for cardiovascular risk stratification. We assessed the relative importance of traditional atherosclerosis risk factors and plasma proteins in predicting cIMT measured nearly a decade later. We examined 6,136 UK Biobank participants with 1,461 proteins profiled using the proximity extension assay.

There are no reliable methods for predicting and preventing atrial fibrillation (AF) in its early stages. This study aimed to identify plasma proteins associated with AF to discover biomarkers and potential drug targets.

Analyses were performed within European ancestry participants from UK Biobank. Principal components (PC) analyses were used for the dimension reduction of 11 measures of adiposity, anthropometrics and energy expenditure. PCs were studied in relation to incident type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) and coronary artery disease (CAD)

It is unclear how patterns of regional genetic differentiation in the UK and Ireland might impact the protein-coding fraction of the genome. We exploit UK Biobank (UKB) and Viking Genes whole exome sequencing data. We demonstrate substantial exonic differentiation among Shetlanders, Orcadians, individuals with full or partial Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry.

Triglyceride-rich lipoproteins and remnants (TRL/remnants) have a causal, but not yet quantified, relationship with coronary heart disease (CHD): myocardial infarction plus revascularization. The authors sought to estimate TRL/Remnant per-particle atherogenicity, investigate causal relationships with inflammation, and determine whether differences in the Atherogenicity of TRL and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) impact the causal association of non-HDL-C.

Few studies have integrated the impact of individual and cumulative childhood maltreatment on multiple psychiatric symptoms. We examined seven types of psychiatric symptoms in adulthood, including depressive symptoms, anxiety symptoms, mania, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), psychotic experiences, self-harm, and alcohol use disorder. Levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) and counts of leukocytes and neutrophils were positively associated with depressive symptoms. Emotional abuse and physical neglect showed the strongest average marginal effects on Psychiatric symptoms.

Older biological age, as measured by shortened telomere length, has been observed in children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) In contrast, older parental age at birth has been related to both ASD risk and longer telomeres. Older paternal or maternal age was more strongly associated with longer TL in participants with ASD. Future studies tracking TL attrition before ASD diagnosis are warranted.

Four Asian studies (discovery) and UK Biobank (validation) were included. CMM was defined as two or more of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, stroke, and heart disease. Two-step individual participant data (IPD) and Cox regressions explored associations between CMM and the presence and short-term incidence of four neuropsychiatric subsyndromes.

There has been limited research exploring this relationship from a genetic perspective. A substantial risk of depression and anxiety development was detected in participants exposed to the high air pollution concomitantly with high genetic risk. Some significant genes overlapped among four air pollutants, like TSN.

Deep mutational scanning enables high-throughput functional assessment of genetic variants. While phenotypic measurements from screening assays generally align with clinical outcomes, experimental noise may affect the accuracy of individual variant estimates. We developed the FUSE (functional substitution estimation) pipeline to improve the estimation of variant impacts.

 basal ganglia are subcortical brain structures involved in motor control, cognition, and emotion regulation. We used brain scans from 34,794 Europeans with replication in 4,808 white and generalization in 5,220 non-white Europeans.

Case-control study investigates UK Biobank data for 8 early-life factors and early-onset endometrial cancer risk among UK residents.

The relationship between sedentary time, physical activity, and chronic back pain remains unclear. Sedentary time was also associated with decreased grey matter volume in several brain regions, including bilateral primary somatosensory cortex.

Study used a recently developed statistical technique to investigate the relations between various elements of a subject's family background and the odds of that subject reporting a sexual history indicative of a minority sexual orientation. Subjects were 78,983 men and 92,150 women who completed relevant questionnaire items in the UK Biobank, a large-scale biomedical database of volunteers aged 40-69 years. Results showed that older brothers increased the chances of homosexuality in both men and women.

There is limited research on whether the association between sarcopenia and the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is influenced by genetic susceptibility. The role of alcohol consumption as a mediator in the risk between sarc Openia and dementia remains inadequately studied.

Study tracked 478,198 participants from the UK Biobank. Data regarding individual leisure-time SB and PA were collected through a standardized questionnaire. For individuals sleeping 8 hours or less per day, substituting SB with an adequate amount of sleep or engaging in VPA emerges as an effective strategy for reducing stroke risk.

Study included 42,325 participants without osteoporosis in the UK Biobank. We used Cox regression and Mendelian randomization analysis to examine the association between plasma proteins. Of 2,919 plasma proteins, we identified 134 significantly associated with the condition. Twelve of these proteins showed significant associations with bone mineral density.

Few studies explore relationship between plant-based dietary patterns and venous thromboembolism (VTE) in different genetic backgrounds. A total of 183,510 participants who were White British ethnicity background and free of VTE at baseline in the UK Biobank were recruited. High PRS was associated with a 47% increase in VTE risk.

The application of machine learning to tasks involving volumetric biomedical imaging is constrained by the limited availability of annotated datasets of three-dimensional (3D) scans for model training. We report a deep-learning model pre-trained on 2D scans that accurately predicts disease-risk factors from 3D medical-scan modalities.

Food preferences can determine an individual's dietary patterns and therefore, may be associated with certain health risks and benefits. The Health-conscious group exhibited lower risk of heart failure (RR = 0.86, 95%CI 0.79-0.93) and chronic kidney disease. The Sweet-tooth group had greater risk of depression, diabetes, and stroke.

Biological ageing markers are useful to risk stratify morbidity and mortality more precisely than chronological age. In this study, we aimed to develop a novel deep-learning-based biological ageing marker (referred to as RetiPhenoAge hereafter) using retinal images and PhenoAge, a composite biomarker of phenotypic age. We determined the performance of this marker for the prediction of morbidity (cardiovascular disease and cancer events) and mortality.

Human brain aging is a complex process that affects various aspects of brain function and structure, increasing susceptibility to neurological and psychiatric disorders. A number of nongenetic and genetic risk factors are found to contribute to the varying rates at which the brain ages among individuals.

Previous observational studies have suggested an association between whole grain consumption and a reduced risk of death. We aimed to evaluate the association between unsweetened, sugar-sweetened, and artificially sweetened cereals and all-cause and cause-specific mortality. We conducted a prospective cohort study of 186 419 UK Biobank participants.

No evidence has linked dietary anthocyanins to the prevention potential against inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in humans. We leveraged data from 188,044 IBD-free individuals (mean age 59 years; 55.2% females) from the prospective cohort UK Biobank.

Accelerated biological aging has been verified to be a critical risk factor for a number of age-related diseases, but its role in dementia remained unclear. This study evaluated the associations between accelerated biological aging and dementia and the moderating role of accelerated biological Aging in the genetic susceptibility to the disease.

Rare copy-number variants associated with neurodevelopmental conditions (ND-CNVs) exhibit variable expressivity of clinical, physical, behavioural outcomes. Findings from clinically ascertained cohorts suggest this variability may be partly due to additional genetic variation. We assessed impact of polygenic scores (PGS) and rare variants on ND-CNV carrier fluid intelligence (FI) scores in the UK Biobank.

Air pollution is a significant public health issue and an important risk factor for metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) The mechanism by which air pollution affects MASLD remains unclear. Our study used integrated serological metabolic data of 251 metabolites from a large-scale cohort study to demonstrate that metabolic signatures play a crucial role in the elevated risk.

The association of a healthy lifestyle with type 2 diabetes (T2D) has been extensively studied. However, its impact on the dynamic trajectory, including progression, onset and prognosis, of T2D has not been investigated. Using data from the UK Biobank, 461 168 participants without diabetes or diabetes-related events were included. Results indicated that adhering to 3-4 healthy lifestyles had an inverse association with the risk of transition from baseline to diabetes.

 Transcriptome analysis was performed on livers from mice engineered for deletion of the flow-sensing PIEZO1 channel in endothelium. This revealed unique up-regulation of  Cyp7a1, which encodes the rate-limiting enzyme for bile synthesis from cholesterol in hepatocytes. Elevated portal fluid flow acting via endothelial PIEzO1 and genetically enhanced PIE ZO1 conversely suppressed  Cyp 7a1.

Brain structural alterations begin long before the presentation of brain disorders. We explored associations between 218 modifiable factors and neuroimaging markers of brain health. The identified factors related to brain health fell into six domains, including systematic diseases, lifestyle factors and personality traits.

Previous studies have found that patients with epilepsy are more likely to suffer impulsivity. We conducted a bidirectional Mendelian randomization (MR) study to explore the causal relationship between impulsivity and epilepsy with recurrent seizure. SNPs related to the lack of perseverance were associated with a decreased risk of epilepsy.

Osteopenia, osteoporosis, and fragility fractures pose a major public health concern. Population-level clinical and biopsychosocial data may uncover modifiable risk factors to target when developing whole person approaches to managing these conditions.

BMI-proteomic score (pro-BMI score) was calculated from 67 pre-identified plasma proteins associated with BMI. A higher pro-B BMI score was significantly associated with higher risks of ischemic heart disease (IHD) and heart failure (HF), but not with risk of stroke.

Study looked at associations between coffee consumption and metabolic syndrome and its components. Consuming up to two cups of coffee per day was inversely associated with metabolic syndrome. Both self-reported and genetically predicted high coffee consumption (four cups or more) were associated with central obesity.

Study included 122,494 UK Biobank participants aged &#8805;60 years without AF at baseline. Low SES and high AL were associated with an increased risk of AF. Chronic stress was also shown to partially mediate the association.

Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) is a fatal disease with scarce therapeutic alternatives. Plasma proteins with discernible causal evidence hold promise as viable drug targets for this condition.

While sex differences in right heart phenotypes have been observed, the molecular drivers remain unknown. The aim of this study was to provide insights into the structure and function of the right ventricle using common genetic variation.

Kidney failure manifests in various forms, from sudden occurrences such as Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) to progressive like Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) Given its intricate nature, marked by overlapping comorbidities and clinical similarities, we sought to design and validate an end-to-end framework for clustering kidney failure subtypes.

Evaluating the impact of lifestyle factors and work practices on renal function has the potential to support the early prevention of chronic kidney disease (CKD) Current studies linking disrupted circadian rhythms to the development or progression of CKD are limited and show disparate findings. This study is the first to link associations between sleep quality and renal function to inflammatory status.

The impact of physical activity on the incidence of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) remains less well studied. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) and the risk of developing IPF. We analyzed data from a prospective cohort study within the UK Biobank.

Lifespan is influenced by complex interactions between genetic and environmental factors. Studying those factors in model organisms of a single genetic background limits their translational value for humans. We mapped lifespan determinants in 85 C. elegans recombinant inbred advanced intercross lines (RIAILs)

Genome-wide interaction scan included 33,756 colorectal cancer cases and 44,346 controls from three genetic consortia. Evidence of an interaction was observed between smoking status (ever vs. never smokers) and a locus on 3p12.1.

The lack of efficient preventive interventions against Alzheimer's disease (AD) calls for identifying efficient modifiable risk factors for AD. Mounting evidence suggests that links between AD and diabetes may be more complex than previously believed. This study emphasizes differences and similarities in the heterogeneous genetic architectures of AD and DM.

Neuroinflammation and the activation of microglial cells are among the earliest events in Alzheimer's disease. Direct observation ofmicroglia in living people is not currently possible. We indexed the heritable propensity for neuroinflammation with polygenic risk scores (PRS)

Phenotyping of major depressive disorder (MDD) can vary from study to study. In this study we examined the classification accuracy of structural and functional connectomes across different depressive phenotypes. We also separated MDD subgroups into those with and without self-reported exposure to childhood trauma (CT)

Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is a severe facial pain disease of uncertain pathophysiology and unclear genetic background. Few candidate genes have been proposed to date. Study aimed to identify independent genetic variants in the protein-coding genes associated with TN.

The advent of biobanks with vast quantities of medical imaging creates huge opportunities for a new generation of genotype-phenotype association studies. However, disentangling biological signals from the many sources of bias and artifacts remains difficult. We show how registration, both spatial and temporal, guided by domain knowledge or learned  de novo , helps uncover biological information.

Regular laxative use was significantly associated with a higher risk of incident depression. Genetic risk of depression did not significantly modify this association. The risk increased with increasing types of laxatives used, with a HR of 1.89 for use of single laxative type.

Cognitive reserve (CR) has been linked to dementia and might be a predictor of aged-related outcomes. The association between CR and risk of other chronic diseases and mortality remains unclear. We aimed to investigate the association of CR with survival free from major chronic diseases.

Based on a prospective cohort from the UK Biobank, a total of 55,139 individuals aged 50 and above with depression were enrolled in the study, among whom 29,528 exhibited suicidal behavior. We used the Gradient Boosting Decision Tree (GBDT) algorithm with stratified 10-fold cross-validation and grid-search to construct the prediction models.

Embedding Genetic Evaluation Methods is a framework to systematically evaluate the utility of embeddings in genetic discovery. EmbedGEM focuses on comparingembeddings along two axes: heritability and disease relevance. The approach is generally applicable to multivariate traits.

Conditional testing via the knockoff framework allows one to identify -- among large number of possible explanatory variables -- those that carry unique information about an outcome of interest. This approach is particularly well suited to the analysis of genome wide association studies.

Genetic prediction holds immense promise for translating genetic discoveries into medical advances. As the high-dimensional covariance matrix of genetic variants often presents a block-diagonal structure, numerous methods account for the dependence among variants in predetermined local LD blocks.

Mendelian randomization is an epidemiological technique that can explore the potential effect of perturbing a pharmacological target. Plasma caffeine levels can be used as a biomarker to measure the pharmacological effects of caffeine. Some genetic variants that decrease caffeine metabolism associate with higher levels of plasma caffeine, but lower levels of caffeine consumption.

Previous studies found that visual impairment (VI) is associated with higher risk of cognitive impairment. The molecular basis of these conditions is unknown. We aim to compare the metabolite associations of VI and cognitive impairment and identify distinct and overlapping metabolites.

The prognostic value of personality and its association with lifestyle factors remain elusive. We identified 8794 patients with T2DM from the UK Biobank database between 2006 and 2010. The primary outcome was a composite of incident CVD, including myocardial infarction (MI), ischemic stroke (IS), atrial fibrillation (AF), and heart failure (HF)

Bilateral oophorectomy (BO) confers immediate estradiol loss. Those with early BO had four times the odds of developing AD compared to those with SM. Greater years of education were associated with reduced odds of AD for both BO and SM.

In genome-wide association studies (GWAS), it is desirable to test for interactions (GxE) between single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs,G's) and environmental variables (E's) However, directly accounting for interaction is often infeasible, because E is latent. For quantitative traits (Y) that are approximately normally distributed, indirect testing on GxE can be done by testing for heteroskedasticity of Y between genotypes.

Long-term health risk assessments related to ambient fine particulate matter (PM2.5) exposure have been more limited to general population but not towards individuals suffering from multimorbidity. Cross-cohort analysis was undertaken on data from 3 population-based prospective cohorts of UK Biobank, the Taiwan MJ Cohort, and the Taiwan Biobanks.

Study evaluated 146,772 UK Biobank participants with serial smoking assessments. 37,377 (25.5%) currently smoked; 105,429 (72.0%) were former smokers; and 3,966 (2.7%) quit smoking during the study. Compared to current smokers, the adjusted risk of AF was 13% lower in former smokers.

Sleep and physical activity (PA) are thought to be interconnected with the development of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) This study aimed to quantify the longitudinal effects of sleep behaviors, PA, and genetic susceptibility on the incidence of RA.

Study identified prevalent patterns of chronic pain locations and evaluated their associations with incident dementia. Data were from 445,530 participants who were free of dementia at baseline (2006-2010) in the UK Biobank. The 3 most prevalent combinations were neck and back, back and knee, and neck and knee. Chronic back, neck, and knee pain was commonly present either individually or simultaneously.

Preserved ratio impaired spirometry (PRISm) is a new lung function impairment phenotype. PRISm has been recognized as a risk factor for various adverse outcomes. We aimed to examine the associations of this new lungfunction impairment phenotype with depression and anxiety in longitudinal studies.

High intakes of dietary flavonoids may protect against nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) This is the first population-based study with long-term follow-up on flavonoid consumption and incident NAFLD.

The relationship between a metabolic signature indicative of healthy lifestyle and dementia risk remains unknown. We retrieved 136 628 dementia-free participants from UK Biobank. We identified 83 metabolites that could represent healthy lifestyle behaviours using elastic net regression. The metabolic signature was associated with a lower dementia risk.

Genetic analysis of major depressive symptoms has the potential to identify clinical and etiological subtypes. There are several challenges to integrating symptom data from genetically informative cohorts, such as sample size differences.

Leveraging data from 46,165 UK Biobank participants and 2920 plasma proteins profiled at baseline, we conducted a longitudinal analysis with a median follow-up of 14.5 years. We identified 157 proteins associated with incident depression. Dysregulation of the 157 proteins is correlated with brain regions implicated in depression, including the hippocampus and middle temporal gyrus.

Recent meta-analyses estimated 14.6% and 11.2% SNP-based heritability of migraine, compared to twin-heritability estimates of 30-60%. This study aimed to investigate heritability estimates in "migraine-first" individuals.

 insulin resistance (IR) is an autonomous risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD) The association between estimated glucose disposal rate (eGDR), a novel indicator of IR, and incident CVD and mortality in chronic kidney disease patients without diabetes remains uncertain.

Language is supported by a distributed network of brain regions with a particular contribution from the left hemisphere. A multi-level understanding of this network requires studying its genetic architecture. We used resting-state imaging data from 29,681 participants (UK Biobank) to measure connectivity.

Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. Despite growing concerns about air quality and its impact on ocular health, there remains a knowledge gap regarding the long-term association between air pollution and glaucomA risk. This study investigates the relationship between exposure to ambient air pollution.

Inhibition of cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) meaningfully affects the concentrations of blood lipids. Lower CETP concentrations were associated with higher total brain volume, lower risk of LBD and Parkinson's dementia.

Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) has an important yet often overlooked role in health and disease. Constraint models quantify the removal of deleterious variation from the population by selection. However, nuclear constraint models are not applicable to mtDNA, owing to its distinct features. Here we describe the development of a mitochondrial genome constraint model and its application to the Genome Aggregation Database.

Mendelian randomization studies using sex-combined data suggest that sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and bioavailable testosterone (BioT) affect bone traits. Given significant sex differences in hormone regulation and effects, female-specific MR studies are necessary. We explored the causal relationships of SHBG, BioT, and total testosterone (TT) with forearm fracture (FAFx) risk in women.

A total of 213,604 participants without hypertension were identified at baseline from the UK Biobank between 2006 and 2010. The hazard ratio (HR) of habitual fish oil users for hypertension was 0.94. Fish oil nonusers with a high genetic risk had an increased risk of hypertension.

Light enhances or disrupts circadian rhythms, depending on the timing of exposure. Circadian disruption contributes to poor health outcomes that increase mortality risk. UK Biobank participants wore light sensors for 1 wk. Day light, night light, and circadian amplitude predicted cardiometabolic mortality with larger hazard ratios than for mortality by other causes.

Identifying causal relations between diseases allows for the study of shared pathways, biological mechanisms, and inter-disease risks. Such causal relations can facilitate the identification of potential disease precursors and candidates for drug re-purposing. Few approaches have been developed to automatically extract causal relationships between diseases from unstructured text.

Coronary artery calcification (CAC) is associated with an increased risk of mortality and cardiovascular events. None therapeutic drugs have been proven effective for CAC treatment. A total of 671 genes were found to be significantly associated with the risk of CAC.

Menopause and related metabolites are associated with mortality. The relationship between earlier menopause, premature mortality, and the role of metabolomic signatures remains underexplored. This study investigated the association between earlier. menophere and premature mortality and the mediating effect of metabolomics.

During chronic inflammation, macrophages acquire sustained inflammatory 'states' that contribute to disease. There is limited understanding of the regulatory mechanisms that drive their generation. Here we describe a systematic functional genomics approach that combines genome-wide phenotypic screening with transcriptional and cytokine profiling.

Clinical studies and meta-analyses have suggested a link between thyroid dysfunction and lens opacification. The objective of this study is to investigate the causal relationship between hyperthyroidism and the development of cataracts using the Mendelian randomization approach. The results demonstrate that there is a strong likely causal relationship.

Previous studies have suggested associations between high-level educational attainment (EA) and a lower risk of sarcopenia. This study used a two-step Mendelian randomization analysis to illustrate the causal relationship between EA and brain cortical structure. EA was associated with increased appendicular lean mass and hand grip strength.

Quantifying molecular regulations between genes/molecules causally from observed data is crucial for elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying biological processes. Most methods for inferring gene regulatory and biological networks rely on association studies or observational causal-analysis approaches. This study introduces a novel approach that combines intervention operations and diffusion models within a do-calculus framework by deep learning.

We investigated the potential determinants of frailty in a cohort of 469,301 UK Biobank participants. The largest EWAS identified 90 modifiable factors for frailty across ten domains. Health and medical history, psychosocial factors, and physical activity were the most significant contributors.

The association between the triglyceride-glucose (TyG) index and its combination with obesity indictors in aortic aneurysm and dissection (AAD) remains unclear. This study included 387,483 baseline participants from the UK Biobank with complete data on TyG. For each standard deviation increase, the risk of AAD occurrence increased by 33%.

Rare deleterious NR5A1/SF-1 variants have been identified in individuals with various differences of sex development (DSD), primary ovarian insufficiency, and infertility. We analyzed health records and exome sequencing data from up to 420 162 individuals (227 858 women) from the UK Biobank study to assess the impact of rare (frequency) variants.

 Transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS) have been widely used to identify thousands of likely causal genes for diseases and complex traits. Most existing TWAS methods rely on gene expression alone. We introduce a multi-omics method that integrates gene expression, DNA methylation, and splicing data to improve the identification of associated genes.

A total of 17,926 participants with prediabetes and 7798 with diabetes were enrolled from the UK Biobank between 2006 and 2010 and followed until the end of 2020. High-sugar-sweetened beverages (SSB) intake accounted for 35% of the hPDI-CVD association. Low intake of whole grain accounted for 36%. Elevated cystatin C levels explained the largest proportion of the association between uPDI and CVD risk.

Previous research has shown that use of renin-angiotensin system (RAS) blockers is linked to a lower prevalence of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) We aimed to estimate the association between the use of RAS blockers and the risk of PTSD among individuals taking antihypertensive medications. The study included participants aged 40-69 from the UK Biobank.

Study included 419,835 UK Biobank participants who did not have KSD at baseline. Significant associations were found between KSD risk and air pollution score. PM2.5 and NO2 reductions may be a key mechanism for the protective impact of residential greenspace on KSD.

The protective effect of a healthy diet combined with stair climbing on cardiovascular health is unclear. We aimed to assess the independent and joint associations of dietary patterns and stair climbing with major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs) The UK Biobank documented 9408 MACEs over a median follow-up of 13.3 years.

A BRCA2 splice acceptor variant, c.517-2A>G, is found in breast and ovarian cancer families from Shetland. The variant segregates with female cancer in diagnosed cases and is classified as pathogenic. Nine VIKING I research volunteers carry this variant, on a shared haplotype (carrier frequency 0.4%).

Patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are at increased risk of Clostridioides difficile infection (CDI) We aimed to determine if genetic risk contributes to this observed association. We carried out a genome-wide association study (GWAS) analysis in the Michigan Genomics Initiative and the United Kingdom Biobank for CDI.

Loneliness has garnered significant attention globally, with extensive exploration of its association with cardiovascular disease. A notable research gap persists concerning loneliness and its potential link to atrial fibrillation (AF) This prospective cohort study utilized data from the UK Biobank.

Walking pace is a strong predictor of health, but little is known about its causal association with rheumatoid arthritis. This study aimed to investigate the causal effect of WP on the developing RA using Mendelian randomization analysis. After adjusting for the risk factors, the associations for WP and RA did not change substantially.

Anatomical MRI templates of the brain are essential to group-level analyses and image processing pipelines. Most existing strategies for multimodal template construction either do not use all modalities of interest to inform the template construction process. Here, we present cross-sectional templates constructed from UK Biobank data.

Low grip strength (GS) is associated with higher risk of Parkinson's disease (PD) incidence. Low GS and high genetic predisposition contribute to the highest PD risk in an additive interaction. In addition to enhancing GS, interventions targeting risk factors might also reduce the excess risk.

Adiposity is positively associated with risk of some cancer sites and other health conditions in men. It is unclear if endogenous hormones play a role in these associations. We examined how body composition and common measures of adiposity are related to hormone concentrations in men from the UK Biobank study.

Cross-sectional study included 53,170 participants aged 60 years and over from the UK biobank. The primary outcomes were grip strength index and muscle mass index. The predictor variable was n-3 fatty acid intake.

The research gap on how to effectively control urate levels in the population with diabetes still remains. Diabetes was associated with a 70% 58% and 134% increased risk for all-cause dementia, Alzheimer's disease, and vascular dementia respectively.

UK Biobank participants (n = 11,780; aged 43-78 years) with accelerometer data for one or more days during the 2 weeks surrounding the Spring and Autumn daylight saving time transitions. Between-individual t-tests compared sleep duration on the Sunday of the clock changes with the Sunday before and the Sunday after.

There is a lack of comprehensive evidence on the long-term risks posed by air pollution with respect to acute kidney injury (AKI) and AKI-related death. This prospective cohort analysis included 414,885 UK Biobank (UKB) participants who did not exhibit AKI at the study's outset.

The role of diet on the risk of chronic pancreatitis (CP) is understudied. The health benefits of the Mediterranean diet (MedDiet) pattern have long been recognized, but its association with CP risk is unclear. We aimed to investigate the association between adherence to MedDiet and the incidence of CP.

Brain ageing is highly heterogeneous, as it is driven by a variety of normal and neuropathological processes. These processes may differentially affect structural and functional brain ageing across individuals. More pronounced ageing during midlife is indicative of later development of dementia.

Altered metabolism plays a role in the pathophysiology of cardiac diseases such as atrial fibrillation (AF) and heart failure (HF) We aimed to identify novel plasma metabolites and proteins associating with cardiac disease. We identified 35 metabolites and 38 druggable proteins expressed in cardiac tissue.

Malnutrition is a complication of chronic kidney disease (CKD) Whether malnutrition, assessed via the geriatric nutritional risk index (GNRI), is associated with the incidence and risk of CKD in older individuals remains unclear. We identified 6,135 and 16,662 CKD patients in the NHANES and UK Biobank.

Little is known about the shared genetics and causality of the association between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) and bone mineral density (BMD) A significant local signal was discovered at 5p11-5q11.9. Protein-protein interaction analysis identified RPS9 and RPL7A as hub genes.

Mounting evidence supports the key role of the disrupted integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in stress- and inflammation-associated depression. We assumed that variations in genes regulating the expression and coding proteins constructing and maintaining this barrier have a predisposing or protecting role in the development of depressive symptoms.

Obesity is implicated in the development of multiple sclerosis (MS), but its effect on disability is less well-established. Study examined effects of various obesity measures on MS severity in 12,584 MS cases. Results showed a significant association between higher genetically-determined body mass index and increased MS severity.

Bridging the gap between genotype and phenotype in GWAS studies is challenging. A multitude of genetic variants have been associated with immune-related diseases, including cancer, yet the interpretability of most variants remains low. Here, we investigate the quantitative components in the T cell receptor (TCR) repertoire.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a major risk factor for heart failure with preserved ejection fraction and cardiac arrhythmias. Our goal is to quantify T2DM-driven abnormalities in ECG and cardiac imaging biomarkers leading to cardiovascular disease.

Previous studies identified common genetic variants associated with longevity in centenarians. The role of the rare loss-of-function (LOF) mutation burden remains largely unexplored. We investigated the burden of rare LOF mutations in Ashkenazi Jewish individuals using whole-exome sequencing data.

Study aimed to explore the association between child maltreatment and hospital-treated infectious diseases in middle-aged and older adults. Child maltreatment included five types: physical abuse, physical neglect, emotional abuse, emotional neglect, and sexual abuse. Participants reporting any maltreatment had elevated infectious diseases risk.

Liver disease activity, indicated by cT1, increases the risk of developing ALS, independent of metabolic syndrome, liver fat, or fibrosis. 15 incident ALS cases were observed during a median follow-up period of 5.6 years.

Study included 161,018 CVD-free participants from the UK Biobank. During 13 years of follow-up, 17,030 participants developed incident CVDs. A healthy lifestyle-related metabolic signature comprising 123 metabolites was established.

Deep learning models for predicting variant pathogenicity have not been thoroughly evaluated on real-world clinical phenotypes. Here, we apply state-of-the-art prediction models to hereditary breast cancer gene variants in UK Biobank participants. Model predictions for missense variants in BRCA1, BRCa2 and PALB2 were associated with breast cancer risk.

Aging is related to deterioration of bodily and neural functions, leading to various disorders and symptoms, including the development of dementia, hearing loss, or tinnitus. Understanding how these phenomena are intertwined and how aging affects those is crucial for prevention and the future development of interventions.

Structural brain aging has demonstrated strong inter-individual heterogeneity and mirroring patterns with brain development. Most of the existing research focused on the cross-sectional changes of brain aging. Genomic analyses revealed risk loci and genes contributing to accelerated brain aging and delayed brain development, providing molecular basis for elucidating the biological mechanisms.

The association between leukocyte telomere length (LTL) alteration and major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) or mortality in patients with hypertension is still unclear. 20,034 patients with essential hypertension were enrolled from UK biobank. LTL was shorter in hypertensive patients with MACE compared to those without MACE.

Structural brain aging has demonstrated strong inter-individual heterogeneity and mirroring patterns with brain development. Most of the existing research focused on the cross-sectional changes of brain aging. Genomic analyses revealed risk loci and genes contributing to accelerated brain aging and delayed brain development, providing molecular basis for elucidating the biological mechanisms.

No study explored the association of noise exposure in the workplace and genetic susceptibility with incidence of atrial fibrillation. We included 167 577 participants without AF at baseline in UK Biobank. During a median follow-up of 11.83 years, we observed 9355 AF cases.

Study examined data of UK Biobank participants who were diagnosed with cancer. Fish oil and glucosamine use was associated with reduced risks of all-cause mortality. The protective effects of fish oil were only observed in patients with LE8 scores lower than the mean score.

The genetics of &#946;-cell function (BCF) offer valuable insights into the aetiology of type 2 diabetes (T2D) Previous studies have expanded the catalogue of BCF genetic associations through candidate gene studies. Here, we aggregate GWAS data of eight BCF traits from 26,000 individuals of European descent. We identify 55 independent genetic associations at 44 loci.

GWASs of traits affecting primary open angle glaucoma through mechanisms independent of intraocular pressure remain limited. Here, we address this gap by subtracting the genetic effects of a GWAS for intraocular Pressure from aGWAS for primary open angles. Seventeen independent genome-wide significant SNPs were associated with the intraocular pressures-independent component of glau coma.

Previous epidemiological studies on the associations between polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and cancer incidence have been inconsistent. We investigated the associations of plasma omega-3 and omega-6 PUFAs with the incidence of overall and 19 site-specific cancers. 253,138 eligible UK Biobank participants were included in our study.

Sleep disorders and low grip strength often co-occur clinically and are geriatric symptoms that cause significant socioeconomic burden. Previous observational studies have found an association between sleep behaviors and grip strength, but the causal relationship remains unclear. Study used genetic variants from the genome-wide association study.

This cohort study aimed to analyze the relationship between nut consumption and the risk of all-cause dementia in adults from the United Kingdom. Data from participants in the UK Biobank cohort between 2007-2012 (baseline) and 2013-2023 (follow-up) were analyzed. Compared with no consumption, daily nut consumption was significantly associated with a 12% lower risk.

Evidence regarding the role of chronic low-grade inflammation in the progression of cardiometabolic diseases (CMDs) is currently limited. This prospective cohort study, utilising data from the UK Biobank, included 273,804 adults aged 40-69 years.

Cognitive decline is a public health concern affecting about 50 million individuals worldwide. Neuroticism has been associated with an increased risk of late-life cognitive decline. This study investigated the relationship between genetic predisposition to neuroticism, computed by polygenic risk score (PRS), and performance in cognitive domains.

Conditional testing via the knockoff framework allows one to identify - among a large number of possible explanatory variables - those that carry unique information. This approach is particularly well suited to the analysis of genome-wide association studies (GWAS)

Study involved 238 388 participants from the UK Biobank. Hypertensive patients who had the optimal risk factor control had a 14.6% lower stroke risk than those who controlled 2 or fewer.

Previous studies indicate a link between non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and unhealthy dietary patterns or nutrient intake. However, it remains unclear whether ultra-processed foods (UPF) contribute to an increased risk of NAFLD. This study aimed to explore how ultra- Processed food consumption correlates with severe NAFLd using the UK Biobank data.

Healthy dietary patterns have been linked to a decreased risk of chronic diseases. However, it remains uncertain whether proteomic signatures can reflect proteome response to healthy diet patterns. Using data from the UK Biobank including Olink plasma proteins, we identified substantial proteomic variation.

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) hold promise in their potential translation into clinical settings to improve disease risk prediction. For each disease, we identified the top 10% subgroup with the greatest magnitude of improvement in risk prediction accuracy attributed to PRSs in the multi-modal model.

MetaboAgeMort is developed using metabolomic profiles from 239,291 UK Biobank participants for 10-year all-cause mortality prediction. Metabo ageMort showed significant associations with all- Cause mortality, cause-specific mortality, and diverse incident diseases.

Otitis media and allergic rhinitis are prevalent conditions. Some data posit a significant association between the 2 ailments. A 2-sample Mendelian randomization study was undertaken to elucidate the causal impact of AR on otitis media. Data on AR were sourced from the Genome for Extensive Association Study.

Incidental physical activity as part of daily living may offer feasibility advantages over traditional exercise. We examined the joint associations of incidental physical activity and sedentary behaviour with major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) risk.

The aim of this study was to scan phenotypes in adulthood associated with polygenic risk scores (PRS) for childhood cancers with well-articulated genetic architectures. SNPs were queried from the UK Biobank genotype imputation data. A total of 244,332 unrelated white British participants were included.

Polygenic scores (PGSs) for complex traits could detect lipid dysfunctions related to the traits and provide new biological insights. We constructed genome-wide PGSs (approximately 1 million genetic variants) for 50 complex traits in 7,169 Finnish individuals.

Growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) is a secreted protein that regulates food intake, body weight and stress responses in pre-clinical models. The physiological function of GDF15 in humans remains unclear. Here we show the absence of an overt phenotype in human G DF15 loss-of-function carriers, including stop gains, frameshifts and the fully inactivating variant C211G3.

Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) and array genotyping with imputation (IMP) are common strategies for assessing genetic variation and its association with medically relevant phenotypes. To date, there has been no systematic empirical assessment of the yield of these approaches when applied to hundreds of thousands of samples. Using data for 100 complex traits from 149,195 individuals in the UK Biobank, we systematically compare the relative yield.

Plasma levels of 2,919 proteins measured in 52,164 UK Biobank participants are associated with incident myocardial infarction, ischemic stroke or heart failure. Mendelian randomization and colocalization analyses indicated that genetically determined levels of 47 and 18 proteins, respectively, were associated with CVDs. FGF5, PROCR and FURIN showed evidence to support potential causality and are therefore promising targets for drug treatment.

Deep rare variant association testing (DeepRVAT) is a model based on set neural networks. It learns a trait-agnostic gene impairment score from rare variant annotations and phenotypes. On 34 quantitative and 63 binary traits, using whole-exome-sequencing data from UK Biobank, it yields substantial gains in gene discoveries and improved detection of individuals at high genetic risk.

Liver X receptor-&#945; regulates cellular cholesterol abundance and potently activates hepatic lipogenesis. At least 1 in 450 people in the UK Biobank carry functionally impaired mutations in LXR&# 945;, which is associated with evidence of hepatic dysfunction.

Evidence suggests an inverse correlation between smoking and Parkinson's disease (PD) This study examined the changing risk relationship using alcohol consumption as a comparative measure. Non-smokers had a heightened PD risk, and this association strengthened closer to diagnosis.

The genetic landscape of cardiometabolic risk factors has been explored extensively. However, insight in the effects of genetic variation on these risk factors over the life course is sparse. We performed genome-wide interaction studies (GWIS) to identify age-specific genetic risks.

Lifestyle, ambient air pollution with crucial outcomes in the progression of adult asthma, including asthma new-onset and asthma hospitalisation. 176,800 participants were included to assess the prospective association between baseline risk exposures and the subsequent asthma onset. For pollutants, PM 2.5 was consistently recognized as a significant risk factor for asthma onset (HR = 1.064, 95% CI: 1.034-1.094)

Fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) is suggested to pose a severe risk to the kidneys by inducing functional degradation and chronic kidney diseases (CKD) In experimental study, noticeable kidney injury, which is the initiation of kidney diseases, is observed with PM 2. 5 exposure in C57BL/6N mice. In vitro, HK-2 cells with PM2.5 -stimulation exhibit tubulopathy and increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation.

The study used quantitative adipose and muscle tissue measures derived from magnetic resonance imaging data from UK Biobank. Fat distribution and muscle composition of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) users were compared with sex-, age-, and BMI-matched control individuals.

A higher consumption of cereals was significantly associated with lower risks of diabetes and diabetic complications. Polygenic of HbA1c mediates the effect of cereALS on incident diabetes. Among people with diabetes without CVD, a higher intake of aforementioned four individual cereal was associated with a 13%-32 % lower risk of developing CVD.

Frailty and sleep disturbances are two major concerns in late adulthood. Both constructs represent dynamic states that are preventable and reversible. Understanding the potential pathways to and effects of these variables on one another is critical.

Study included 203,372 women who have given birth in UK Biobank. GDM was associated with higher odds of T2DM, coexisting T 2DM and vascular disease.

Allostatic load (AL) is a biomarker of chronic stress associated with various chronic diseases. No study has evaluated the relationship between AL and lung cancer risk.

Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging has become a modality with superior power for the diagnosis and prognosis of cardiovascular diseases. One of the essential quality controls of CMR images is to investigate the complete cardiac coverage, which is necessary for the volumetric and functional assessment. This study examines the full cardiac coverage using a 3D dual-domain convolutional model.

Mitochondrial DNA copy number (mtDNAcn) from blood may predict cognitive decline and dementia risk. The effect of somatic mutations or frailty is unknown. We estimated mtDNAcn using fastMitoCalc and microheteroplasmies using mitoCaller, from Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) data. In 189,566 participants free of dementia at study entry (mean age = 56 +/- 8), we examined the association between mt DNAcn and subsequent dementia diagnosis.

Low skeletal muscle volume may increase dementia risk through mechanisms affecting brain structure. It is unclear whether this relationship exists outside of sarcopenia and/or varies by other factors. We aimed to study the interplay between skeletal muscleVolume and factors, such as age, sex, and body mass index (BMI), in explaining brain structure at midlife.

Consumption of ultra-processed foods (UPF) has been associated with increased risks of various age-related diseases. We aim to assess the associations between consumption of UPF and risk of AREDs including age- related macular degeneration (AMD), cataract and glaucoma.

Sex-differential selection can have profound impacts on the maintenance of genetic variation, disease risk, and other key aspects of natural populations. Because the sexes mix their autosomal genomes each generation, quantifying SDS is not possible using conventional population genetic approaches.

Triglyceride-rich lipoproteins cholesterol (TRLs-C) has been associated with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) We assessed the associations with myocardial infarction (MI) and ischemic stroke (IS)

Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) are expected to be helpful in precision medicine. It remains unclear whether high-PRS groups are more likely to benefit from preventive interventions for diseases. Recent methodological advancements enable us to predict treatment effects at the individual level.

Brain age gap (BAG) is difference between predicted brain age and chronological age. BAG is a general biomarker for a variety of neurological, psychiatric, and other diseases or disorders. Study examined differences in BAG values derived from T1-weighted scans.

Elevated C-reactive protein (CRP), a marker of inflammation, is common in many chronic conditions. We aimed to examine to what extent elevated CRP in chronic conditions could be explained by concurrent adiposity. We analysed UK Biobank data on 10 chronic conditions reported at baseline.

High sodium and low potassium consumption are related to hypertension and cardiovascular disease. We aimed to determine the relationship between the frequency of salt addition and potassium consumption with the risk of new-onset atrial fibrillation. The study used the UK Biobank cohort, which included over 500,000 individuals enrolled from the United Kingdom between 2006 and 2010.

High well-being was associated with a significantly reduced risk of various CVDs. Mediation analysis indicated that lifestyle and inflammatory markers partially mediated the relationship. The role of lifestyle factors and inflammation as a mediator provides insight into possible biological pathways linking psychological states and cardiovascular health.

Data from the UK Biobank cohort participants aged 40-69 without prior cancer diagnosis were analyzed. We assessed the magnitude of associations of excess weight with the incidence of obesity-related cancers combined.

Liver effects of concentrated vs. more evenly distributed moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) patterns remain unclear. We aimed to examine the association of accelerometer-measured MVPA and different MVPA patterns with liver outcomes.

Study aims to clarify the point of genetics between non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and sarcopenia. Increasing appendicular lean mass (ALM) decreased the risk of NAFLD (OR = 0.906, 95%CI 0.838-0.980) Those older than 60 were more likely to suffer from NAFLd if they had low grip strength. The presence of specific single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) has been identified in the PNPLA3, APOE, and MAU2 proteins.

Polygenic scoring is an approach for estimating an individual's likelihood of a given outcome. We have implemented the leading polygenic scoring methodologies within an easy-to-use pipeline called GenoPred. The pipeline is a Snakemake pipeline with associated Conda software environments.

Study used 24-h accelerometry time series from UK Biobank participants aged 42 to 79 years. A pattern of continuous day-long activity was inversely associated with colorectal cancer risk. A second pattern of late-day activity was suggestively inversely related to risk.

The clinical validity of the multifactorial BOADICEA model for epithelial tubo-ovarian cancer (EOC) risk prediction has not been assessed in a large sample size. We evaluated the model discrimination and calibration in the UK Biobank cohort comprising 199,429 women.

Anemia may contribute significantly to the onset of Parkinson's disease (PD) Current research on the association between anemia and PD risk is inconclusive. This study aims to investigate the relationships between. anemia, blood cell indicators, andPD risk using a thorough prospective cohort study.

We assess the UK Biobank (UKB) Polygenic Risk Score (PRS) Release. PRSs for 28 diseases and 25 quantitative traits have been made available on individuals in UKB. We also release a benchmarking software tool to enable like-for-like performance evaluation.

Data came from 79,294 participants in the UK Biobank who completed at least two 24-h dietary assessments. Higher Klemera-Doubal Method Biological Age (HKDM-BA), higher PhenoAge (HPA), higher allostatic load (HAL), and longer telomere length (LTL) were estimated to assess biological aging. Substitution model was performed to assess the effect of dietary protein substitutions.

The S4 + LDpred2 method provided overall improved PGS accuracy across a variety of phenotypes for UK Biobank participants. The method had the best estimated P GS accuracy in Finnish and Japanese populations.

Weight-adjusted-waist index (WWI) and all-cause mortality as well as cardiovascular mortality in individuals with type 2 diabetes. We used data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey from 1999 to 2018 and the UK Biobank database.

Using Mendelian randomization (MR) approach, we investigated associations between dietary intake and colorectal cancer. We calculated genetic risk scores of diet-related variants and used them as instrumental variables in the two-stage least square MR framework. In MR analysis, genetically predicted fruit intake was significantly associated with a 21% decreased risk of CRC. null findings were observed in multivariable analysis.

Cardiometabolic multimorbidity (CM) is an increasing public health concern. Previous observational studies have suggested inverse associations between coffee, tea, and caffeine intake and risks of CM. This prospective study involved 172 315 (for caffeine analysis) and 188 091 (tea and coffee analysis) participants free of any cardiometric diseases at baseline.

Multiple large longitudinal cohorts provide opportunities to address questions about predictors of pain and pain trajectories. This focus article uses two empirical examples to illustrate the processes of assessing the measurement properties of data from large cohort studies. In both examples, data were screened to select candidate variables that captured the impact of chronic pain.

Elevated VAT or PDFF exhibited associations with adverse left ventricular (LV) structure and impaired LV function. The high VAT-high PDFF group displayed the most pronounced cardiac alterations. The findings suggested that VAT and PDFF was related to SBP, diabetes, dyslipidemia, lipid profile, liver function and glucose.

Study explores effects of stress during childhood and adulthood on grey matter macro- and microstructure. Findings showed that childhood stress is associated with changes in microstructural measures bilaterally within the hippocampus and amygdala. No effects of adulthood stress on brain microst Structure were found.

Eight out of 23 brain areas had significant negative associations with depression in the whole population. These relationships were abolished in seven areas when SES was included in the analysis. The precentral gyrus was robustly associated with depression across all analyses.

Loneliness is now widely regarded as a health risk factor. However, whether the associations between loneliness and multiple diseases are consistent with causal effects remains largely unexplored. We combined behavioural, genetic and hospitalization data from the UK Biobank to examine the associations of loneliness with a wide range of non-overlapping diseases.

There is a connection between abdominal obesity and chronic kidney disease (CKD) There is a lack of systematic research investigating the specific roles of serum metabolites, including lipid metabolites, amino acid metabolites, carbohydrate metabolites and inflammatory substances in explaining this associations.

Neurocognitive dysfunction is observationally associated with the risk of psychiatric disorders. Blood metabolites, which are readily accessible, may become highly promising biomarkers for brain disorders. The causal role of blood metabolites in neurocognitive function and the biological pathways underlying their association with psychiatric disorders remain unclear.

Sepsis is an inflammatory disease that leads to severe mortality. Proteomic research serves as a primary source for drug target identification. We employed proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR), genetic correlation analysis, and colocalization analysis.

Restricting salt, caffeine, and alcohol intake is commonly recommended as a first-line treatment for patients with M&#233;ni&#232;re's disease (MD) However, it remains unclear whether these interventions effectively improve symptoms of MD. We conducted a bidirectional two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to evaluate the relationship between these dietary modifications and MD.

The metabolomic profile of aging is complex. Here, we analyse 325 nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) biomarkers from 250,341 UK Biobank participants. We develop a metabolomic aging score that outperforms other aging metrics in predicting short-term mortality risk.

Community-dwelling adults (N = 491,323) in the UK Biobank completed a neuroticism scale between 2006 and 2010. Vital status was tracked up to December 2022 via linkage with the UK National Health Service. Loneliness was the component of neuroticism most strongly associated with premature mortality.

A normal diet supplemented with 1.25% cholesterol (high cholesterol diet) caused more severe colitis in mice. Cholesterol aggravated DSS-induced intestinal epithelial barrier impairment and nuclear sterol regulatory element-binding protein 2 (nSREBP2) inhibition. In humans, SREBF2 gene single nucleotide polymorphism (CC) and serum TC levels are associated with IBD incidence.

The heritability of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is high. AAA partially shares genetic architecture with other cardiovascular diseases. Genetic information could help inform AAA screening strategies.

A causal link between air pollution exposure and cardiovascular events has been suggested. Few studies have investigated the shape of the associations at low levels of air pollution and identified the most important temporal window of exposure. We assessed long-term associations between particulate matter 2.5 at low concentrations and multiple cardiovascular endpoints using the UK Biobank cohort.

Insulin resistance causes multiple epidemic metabolic diseases, including type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and fatty liver. To discover novel insulin resistance genes in the general population, we conducted genome-wide association studies in 382,129 individuals. We identified 251 independent loci, of which 62 were more strongly associated with TG/HDL compared to TG or HDL alone.

Little evidence from population-based cohort to analyze relationship of wildfire-related PM 2.5 with cancer-specific mortality. Study consisted of 492394 participants (age: 38-73 years) recruited by UK Biobank during 2004-2010. Each 10 &#956;g/m 3  increment of 3-year cumulative exposure was related to a 0.4 % greater risk of total cancer.

An understanding of human brain individuality requires the integration of data on brain organization across people and brain regions, molecular and systems scales, as well as healthy and clinical states. Here, we help advance this understanding by leveraging methods from computational genomics to integrate large-scale genomic, transcriptomic, neuroimaging, and electronic-health record data sets.

Large biobanks have dramatically advanced our understanding of genetic influences on human brain anatomy. Most studies have combined rather than compared male and female participants. We screen for sex differences in the common genetic architecture of over 1000 neuroanatomical phenotypes in the UK Biobank.

There is a growing interest in the linkage of cardiovascular health (CVH) with depression/anxiety. The evidence of "Life's Essential 8" CVH score is scarce. We evaluated the associations ofCVH score with risk of incident depression/Anxiety among 0.4 million participants.

Exome-wide sequencing and association analysis (ExWAS) in 75 K Pakistanis identified NM_000435.3(NOTCH3):c.3691 C > T, encoding the missense amino acid substitution p.Arg1231Cys. variant is attributable for approximately 2.0% of hemorrhagic strokes and 1.1% of all strokes in South Asians. Findings highlight the value of diversity in genetic studies.

Allostatic load (AL) reflects the cumulative burden of chronic stress throughout life. The associations between AL, colorectal cancer (CRC) risk and all-cause mortality in patients with CRC remain unclear.

 ehrapy is a modular open-source Python framework designed for exploratory analysis of heterogeneous epidemiology and EHR data. It incorporates a series of analytical steps, from data extraction and quality control to the generation of low-dimensional representations.

Dietary habits of 190,893 participants from UK-Biobank were assessed. An inverse association between adherence to EAT-Lancet diet and all-cause dementia (high vs. low) was observed only in individuals with high socioeconomic status. On the contrary, no protective effects of the diet on early-onset dementia were observed.

Hip fractures present a significant healthcare challenge, especially within aging populations. This paper focuses on the prediction of hip fracture risk in older and middle-aged adults. The study cohort included 547 patients, with 94 experiencing hip fracture.

Study aimed to examine associations between healthful and unhealthful plant-based dietary patterns with risk of all-cause mortality among CKD patients for the first time. Participants with the highest hPDI scores showed a 34% lower risk of mortality.

Risky behavior is a heritable trait that can have negative mental health consequences. It has been associated with variability in cortical structure and function. The relation between cortex, gene expression and risky behavior remains unclear.

Sedentary behavior (SB) has emerged as a significant health concern that deserves attention. This study aimed to examine the associations between prolonged sedentary behavior and the risk of all-cause and cause-specific mortality. It also explored desirable alternatives to sitting in terms of physical activity (PA)

The emergence of biobank-level datasets offers new opportunities to discover novel biomarkers and develop predictive algorithms for human disease. We present an ensemble machine-learning framework (machine learning with phenotype associations, MILTON) to predict 3,213 diseases in the UK Biobank.

The relationship between psoriasis and site-specific cancers remains unclear. We use observational and genetic data from the UK Biobank to investigate the potential causal associations. In the unselected PheWAS analysis, Psoriasis is associated with higher risks of 16 types of cancer.

Migraine is a highly prevalent and complex neurovascular disease. Currently available therapeutic drugs often fall to adequately meet clinical needs. This study aims to identify putative novel targets for migraine treatment through proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR)

Analysis of rare protein-coding variants in 106,973 women from the UK Biobank study implicates genes with effects around five times larger than previously found for common variants. The SAMHD1 association reinforces the link between ovarian ageing and cancer susceptibility.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk increases with age. Statins reduce cardiovascular risk but their effects are less certain at older ages. We assessed the long-term effects and cost-effectiveness of statin therapy.

Few studies have shown that drinking coffee and tea may be associated with the risk of hypertension and dementia. Limited research exists on their impact on dementia risk in hypertensive patients. This study aimed to determine the association between coffee and Tea consumption and dementia development in the hypertensive population.

The American Heart Association introduced Life's Essential 8 (LE8) as a new cardiovascular health (CVH) metric. There is limited understanding of LE8's impact on the risk of transitions between different stages of CVH. The current study investigated whether adhering to LE8 during a healthy stage could mitigate the progression from hypertension to cardiovascular diseases.

No study has examined whether excessive visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue are associated with musculoskeletal pain. Abdominal MRI scans were performed at two imaging visits. Pain in the neck/shoulder, back, hip, knee or 'all over the body' was assessed.

The expansive collection of genetic and phenotypic data within biobanks offers an unprecedented opportunity for biomedical research. The frequent occurrence of missing phenotypes presents a significant barrier to fully leveraging this potential. Our goal is to leverage the large dataset of genotypes (but without the phenotype) and a separate GWAS summary dataset of the phenotype to impute the phenotypes.

A total of 283,579 individuals with paid employment or self-employment aged 37-73 years were included from the UK Biobank with a median follow-up period of 14.0 years. Compared with that of day workers, the adjusted hazard of all-cause mortality was increased by 12.0% in shift workers. Only individuals who worked night shifts for 20-30 years exhibited a substantially increased hazard of cardiovascular disease mortality.

Step cadence-based and machine-learning (ML) methods have been used to classify physical activity (PA) intensity in health-related research. This study examined the association of intensity-specific PA duration with all-cause (ACM) and CVD mortality. The ML elicited the greatest mortality risk reduction.

High heritability of salt sensitivity suggests an essential role for genetics in the relationship between sodium intake and blood pressure (BP) The role of glycosaminoglycan genes, which are crucial for salinity tolerance, remains to be elucidated.

Chronic cardiovascular-kidney disorder (CCV-KD) is increasingly prevalent. Few studies have assessed the association between the two conditions. We conducted a prospective cohort study using data from UK Biobank.

We aimed to develop and validate a protein risk score for predicting Alzheimer's disease. We compared its performance with a validated clinical risk model and apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotypes. The top 10 proteins with the highest coefficients contributed most of the predictive power for AD risk.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) causes profound impairments in neurological function. Study aimed to identify pre-disposing genetic, phenotypic, and exposure-related factors for ALS using multi-modal data and assess their joint predictive potential.

There is increasing evidence of shared genetic factors between psychiatric disorders and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) phenotypes. New approaches are needed to infer potential genetic structure underlying those phenotypes, says the study.

Gene-based association analysis is a powerful tool for identifying genes that explain trait variability. It aims to eliminate influence of SNPs outside the gene, which are in linkage disequilibrium with intragenic SNPs. We suggest a new TauCOR method for conditional gene-based analysis using summary statistics. This method accounts the influence of the full regional polygenic background.

The associations of ambient air pollution exposure and low-grade inflammation with lung function remain uncertain. In this study, 276,289 subjects were enrolled in the UK Biobank. The median concentrations of air pollution were 9.89 &#181;g/m 3 for PM 2.5. One-unit increase in INFLA score was linked with 12.41 and 11.31-ml decreases in FVC and FEV 1 , respectively.

UK Biobank study included 384,758 participants aged 56.6 +/- 8.0 years. After a median of 11.9 years of follow-up, 8,885 (2.3%) participants were diagnosed with VTE. A healthy sleep score inversely affected VTE risk for participants with a score of 5, the hazard ratio of VTE was 0.813.

People with multiple LTC (MLTC) have increased risk of sarcopenia. It has not yet been established whether this is driven by specific combinations of LTC. Decision trees identified several LTC combinations associated with increased risk. These included drug/alcohol misuse and osteoarthritis.

Study used data from the UK Biobank to investigate the relationship between alcohol consumption and dementia risk. 313,958 White British current drinkers, who were free of dementia during 2006-2010, were followed up until 2021. During a mean follow-up of 13.2 years, 5394 (1.7%) developed dementia. Findings suggested that there was no safe level of alcohol consumption for dementia.

Genome-wide data from 52 ancient individuals from eight sites in Cambridgeshire covering the period of Roman occupation. Low levels of genetic ancestry differentiation between Romano-British sites and indications of larger populations than in the Bronze Age and Neolithic.

A balanced diet and adequate physical activity (PA) are recognized as pivotal components among modifiable environmental factors. The independent impact on NDD incidence has been previously debated. This investigation seeks to delineate the association between PA and NDDs across various levels of adherence to a plant-based diet.

Study assessed data from two large-scale longitudinal surveys. Long-term PM1 exposure can contribute to rapid cognitive decline at concentrations exceeding 23 and 5.5 &#956;g.m-3 in CHARLS and UKB participants, respectively.

Identifying modifiable causal risk factors for cancer is challenging because both exposure and outcome are strongly impacted by genetics and environment. We propose a novel two-sample MR method, namely, Multiple forms of IV-to-exposure effects. Unraveling shared confounding using GWAS Summary-level Effects.

Study aims to compare performance of contemporary machine learning models with statistical models in predicting all-cause mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. A prospective cohort study was conducted including 22,579 people with diabetes from the UK Biobank.

The prevalence of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) is rising worldwide. Hyperglycaemia, hypertension, and dyslipidaemia are known risk factors. This study aims to explore the relationship between different cardiorenal risk factors and ESRD to address this global challenge.

Study of multiple cohorts identifies CHEK2 as a candidate susceptibility gene for DFSP. Additional epidemiologic and functional studies are needed to further characterize this potential gene-tumor relationship.

Eosinophils have the potential to exhibit both anti-tumor properties and tumor-promoting effects. The use of drugs that modulate eos inophilia may increase the risk of colorectal cancer.

We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) In the GWAS comparing patients with NPH with the controls, we identified 6 gene regions significantly. The genes near the top loci have previously been associated with blood-brain barrier and blood-CSF barrier function.

Cerebral small vessel disease is the most common pathology underlying vascular dementia. Diffusion tensor imaging is more sensitive to white matter damage and better predicts dementia risk than conventional magnetic resonance imaging sequences. We developed a deep learning model to synthesize FA/MD from T1.

Adiposity, measured by BMI, is a known risk factor for postmenopausal breast cancer. Whether the association of BMI with breast cancer risk differs among women with and without cardiovascular diseases (CVD) or type 2 diabetes (T2D) is uncertain. We used individual participant data from the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and nutrition (EPIC) and UK Biobank.

High adherence to a flavonoid-rich diet score was associated with a lower risk of dementia, with reductions more pronounced in individuals with a high genetic risk, hypertension, and depressive symptoms. The greatest risk reduction was observed in participants consuming at least 2 of the following per day: 5 servings of tea, 1 serving of red wine, and 0.5 servings of berries.

Genome-wide significant AP variants were tested for association with AP-affiliated arrhythmias. Three common missense variants were associated with APs, in the genes CCDC141 (p.Arg935Trp) and SCN1073Val. The 3 variants associated with PSVT and theSCN10A variant associated with AF, supporting an effect on AP- affiliated arrhythias. All 3 AP risk alleles were associated to higher heart rate and shorter PR interval.

Dysbetalipoproteinemia (DBL) is a disorder of remnant cholesterol metabolism associated with a severe risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) The objective of this study was to investigate the univariate and multivariate predictors of ASCVD in individuals with DBL. Age, hypertension, waist circumference and a polygenic risk score for coronary artery disease (PRSCAD) were independent predictors.

Oculomics is the association between the retina and systemic health. Unlike conventional AI models trained on well-recognized retinal features, the retinal phenotypes that most oculomics models use are more subtle. We found that the NAP generated from our framework was correlated to the clinically relevant endpoint of cardiovascular risk.

Study included 375,665 participants without diabetes at baseline in the UK Biobank study. Dietary patterns were derived through principal component analysis of food frequency questionnaire data. Immune function was assessed using 14 individual inflammatory markers and an integrated low-grade inflammation score (INFLA-score) The prudent diet was negatively and the full-cream dairy diet was positively associated with most inflammatory markers.

Accelerated decline in lung function is associated with incident COPD, hospitalizations and death. However, identifying this trajectory with longitudinal spirometry measurements is challenging in clinical practice. The proteomic respiratory susceptibility score was derived based on these circulating proteins and applied to the UK Biobank and COPDGene studies.

Few studies have explored the association between stair climbing and osteoarthritis. This study prospectively evaluated the associations among stair climbing, genetic susceptibility, and their interaction with the risk of incident hip/knee OA.

The association between the American Heart Association (AHA) Life's Essential 8 (LE8) and the risk of pancreatic cancer (PC) remains unclear. This cohort consisted of 234,102 participants from the UK Biobank. Participants with a high LE8 score and a low polygenic risk score (PRS) had the lowest risk of PC.

Phosphate is important for several metabolic functions and essential for bone mineralization. Sex-differences exist in the relation between serum phosphate and certain diseases. The reference interval for phosphate is age-adjusted in infants, but most institutions use the same intervals for adult men and women.

Study aims to evaluate impact of ultra-processed food (UPF) on type 2 diabetes (T2D), cardiovascular disease (CVD), hypertension, and cardiometabolic multimorbidity (CMM) Participants with high UPF consumption had a higher risk of T2D, CVD, and CMM.

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) ranks among the most prevalent and lethal malignancies globally. Fatty acids play a significant role in diverse physiological and pathological mechanisms, yet their precise involvement in NSCLC remains poorly understood. This study utilized a large-scale prospective cohort of 249,132 participants.

Pathogenic variants in RAD51C confer an elevated risk of breast and ovarian cancer, while individuals homozygous for specific RAD 51C alleles may develop Fanconi anemia. Using saturation genome editing (SGE), we functionally assess 9,188 unique variants, including >99.5% of all possible coding sequence single-nucleotide alterations.

Family history of cancer and polygenic risk scores (PRS) are pivotal for cancer risk assessment. Yet their combined impact remains unclear. Participants in the UK Biobank were recruited between 2006 and 2010. Cox regression was used to examine associations between FH, PRS, and cancer risk.

 insomnia, daytime sleepiness, and short or long sleep duration, as well as sleep risk score were associated with an increased risk of rheumatoid arthritis. Participants with unfavorable sleep patterns and high genetic risk showed the highest risk.

Recent studies have shown an ascending trend in global added sugar consumption. Evidence for the long-term consequences of added sugar on all-cause mortality and cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) remains limited. This study aimed to examine the associations between added sugar from various sources and the risk of all- Cause mortality and CVDs.

Waist circumference (WC) is most common but imprecise method for measuring abdominal adiposity. Study aimed to determine whether elevated VAT or ASAT provides greater prognostic value for CVD events compared to elevated WC in the general population.

GC-rich tandem repeat expansions (TREs) often associated with DNA methylation, gene silencing and folate-sensitive fragile sites. TREs underlie several congenital and late-onset disorders. A GCC expansion in the promoter of AFF3 was associated with a 2.4-fold reduced probability of completing secondary education.

 Quantification of body compartments is emerging as novel a biomarker of metabolic health. The present study evaluated the impact of liver transplant (LT) on bodycompartments. The findings provide data needed to design future studies developing radiomics-based risk-stratification strategies in LT recipients.

Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) in healthy human urine provide an antibacterial defense strategy within the urinary tract. Peptidyl arginine deiminase 4 (PADI4) inhibition in mice blocked NETosis.

Prediabetes and type 2 diabetes mellitus are growing global health concerns. Lifestyle modifications, including dietary interventions, offer promising avenues for prevention and management. Our hypothesis was that proportions of n3 PUFA would by inversely associated with the prediabetes prevalence.

Robust and accurate prediction of cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk facilitates early intervention to benefit patients. Relationship between mental health disorders and CVD is widely recognized. Existing models often overlook psychological factors, relying on a limited set of clinical and lifestyle parameters.

Instrumental variables (IVs) are widely used to study the causal effect of an exposure on an outcome. IVs require an instrument that (a) is associated with the exposure, (b) has no direct effect on the outcome except through the exposure and (c) is not related to unmeasured confounders. This article reviews works where instruments may not satisfy conditions b or c, which we refer to as invalid instruments.

Study reveals integrated pathways that explain the interplay between brain, body, environment and lifestyle. Using multimodal brain imaging and organ-specific physiological markers from more than 18,000 adult participants.

Physical activity commonly follows a "weekend warrior" pattern, in which most moderate-to-vigorous physical activity is concentrated in 1 or 2 days. We tested associations between physical activity pattern and incidence of 678 conditions in 89 573 participants of the UK Biobank prospective cohort study.

Cerebral small vessel disease (cSVD) is the most common pathology underlying vascular cognitive impairment. A comprehensive description of cSVD associations with clinical phenotypes at scale is lacking. We included participants from the UKB imaging study who had available information on total volume of white matter hyperintensities (WMHs)

Methylated tandem repeat expansions resemble the FMR1 CGG repeat that causes fragile X syndrome. AFF3 expansion carriers had a 2.4-fold reduced probability of completing secondary education.

Biological age can be predicted using artificial intelligence (AI) trained on electrocardiograms (ECGs) We developed an AI model to predict age from an ECG and compared baseline characteristics.

Limited epidemiological evidence exists concerning the impact of healthy dietary patterns on reducing the risk of cholelithiasis. We aimed to examine the association of seven established dietary patterns with subsequent choleLithiasis risk and whether this association was modified by genetic risk. We conducted a prospective cohort study from the UK Biobank, including 155,323 participants.

Predictive Risk modeling using Mendelian Randomization (PRiMeR) leverages risk factors and genetic data from a healthy cohort. After training, the learned predictor can be used to assess risk for new patients solely based on risk factors.

Telomere length is a cellular aging marker implicated in various health outcomes. There have been no studies focused on the relationship between LTL and the future risk of depression and anxiety. Data from 364,331 UK Biobank participants were analyzed.

This article considers the problem of classifying individuals in a dataset of diverse psychosis spectrum conditions. We consider both support vector machines (SVMs) and graph convolutional networks (GCNs) for classification. We also employ the MultiVERSE algorithm to generate network embeddings of the functional and structural networks. The best models among SVMs and GCNs yielded accuracies >63%.

Albinism is an archetypal rare condition associated with hypopigmentation. We analyse data from the Genomics England 100,000 Genomes Project alongside a cohort of 1120 individuals with albinism. We show that, when both variants are present, the probability of receiving a diagnosis is significantly increased. The approach discussed opens up new avenues for the investigation of oligogenic patterns in apparently Mendelian disorders.

Previous studies suggest that prevalent heart failure (HF) differs based on left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) The aim of this study was to evaluate prevalent and incident HF based on LVEF and CMR-determined LV size within a large community-dwelling cohort.

Time spent in moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) was classified into four categories. Compared with very-low level MVPA, moderate MVPA might reduce the risk of depression. Prolonged sedentary behavior was associated with a higher risk of Depression. The WHO guideline of 150-300 min/week of MVPA may reduce depression by 29% and anxiety by 20%.

Deciphering the relationships between genes and complex traits can enhance our understanding of phenotypic variations and disease mechanisms. Here we present a framework to decipher the total and direct causal effects of individual genes. BN-GWAS leverages imputed expression profiles from GWAS and raw expression data from a reference dataset.

Conditional testing via the knockoff framework allows one to identify-among a large number of possible explanatory variables-those that carry unique information. This approach is particularly well suited to the analysis of genome-wide association studies.

UK Biobank study in a cohort of participants who wore accelerometers for one week. Patterns of physical activity were compared. Meeting physical activity guidelines is necessary to reduce all-cause mortality in those at the lower and middle thirds of handgrip strength.

TM6SF2 represents a good candidate for this approach due to its known association with steatotic liver disease (SLD) We screened participants with whole-exome sequences in the Penn Medicine Biobank (PMBB, n >40,000) and the UK Biobanks (UKB, n  >200,000). Missense variants in TM6 SF2 (E167K, L156P, P216L) were associated with an increased risk of clinically diagnosed and imaging-proven steatosis.

raining using unlabeled data increased the specificity for the NORM class to 0.961. Longitudinal strain features slightly improved classification metrics, except for HCM-AUC. Feature analyses showed that strain features were important for disease labeling.

The X chromosome has remained enigmatic in Alzheimer disease (AD) Yet it makes up 5% of the genome and carries a high proportion of genes expressed in the brain, making it particularly appealing as a potential source of unexplored genetic variation in AD. This large-scale XWAS of AD identified the novel SLC9A7 locus.

Shanghai Textile Workers Cohort was established in 1981 with 35 years of follow-up, assessing textile workers' lung functions every five years. We employed four distinct models to examine the association between forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and proteins. Five proteins were significantly associated with the rate of decline of FEV1.

Small cell carcinoma of the ovary, hypercalcemic type (SCCOHT) is an extremely rare, highly aggressive cancer (mean age of onset, 24 years) Nearly all cases are associated with somatic or germline pathogenic variants (GPVs) in SMARCA4. Early bilateral oophorectomy is recommended for unaffected females with a SMarCA4 GPV.

Sarcopenia represents a substantial public health challenge, particularly among the geriatric population. The ingestion of oily fish and cheese was significantly correlated with augmented ALM, diminished risk of low hand grip strength, and enhanced walking pace. cooked vegetables, fresh fruit, dried fruit, cereal, and raw vegetables were protective of one or both of the sarcopenia-associated phenotypes.

Gallstone diseases affect intestinal inflammation, bile flow, and gut microbiota. Gallstone disease may increase the risk of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) Studies exploring the associations between gallstone diseases and subsequent IBD risk have been limited.

The G haplotype is a group of co-inherited single nucleotide variants in the F5 gene that reduce venous thromboembolism (VTE) risk. Seven percent of the population is homozygous for the G haplotypes (F5-G/G) The underlying mechanism of VTE protection is poorly understood.

A total of 129,408 participants in the UK Biobank were included in this study. Over a median follow-up period of 13.26 years, 2421(1.87%) participants developed IBS. After adjusting for the confounders, individuals in the proinflammatory diet category had a higher risk of IBS compared with the antiinflammatory category.

Since 2006, the UK biobank has recorded prescription medication and mortality data for over 500'000 participants, aged between 40 and 70 years old. As expected, most drugs were linked to a shorter lifespan, likely due to the life-limiting nature of the diseases they are prescribed to treat. A few drugs were associated with increased lifespans, including notably Sildenafil, Atorvastatin, Naproxen and Estradiol.

Climbing 10-50, 60-100, 110-150, and &#8805;160 steps of stairs per day were associated with significant reductions in the risk of AF, compared to not climbing any stairs. Risk reduction appeared more pronounced in women than in men.

A total of 2180 genetic variants were used to develop nine PRSs for lung cancer. The metaPRS was associated with lung cancer risk with a hazard ratio of 1.33 (95% confidence interval: 1.27-1.39) per standard deviation increased. The addition of metaPRs to the clinical risk model showed continuous net reclassification improvement.

Recent studies have reported that gout is associated with a risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) later in life. However, the predictive value of genetic predisposition to gout combined with lifestyle habits for CVD risk remains unclear. This study aimed to examine the association between genetic risk and lifestyle habits and the risk of developing CVD.

The impact of pain intensity on the progression trajectories of cardiometabolic multimorbidity (CMM) is not well understood. We attempted to dissect the relationship of short-term pain (STP) and chronic pain intensity with the temporal progression of CMM.

Increasingly large samples in genome-wide association studies (GWASs) for alcohol use behaviors (AUBs) have led to an influx of implicated genes. Yet the clinical and functional understanding of these associations remains low. This study applied a multidimensional framework to investigate the latent genetic structure underlying heterogeneous dimensions of AUBs.

Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is associated with an increased prevalence of cardiovascular diseases compared with the general population. This cohort study used a polygenic risk score (PRS) for HS to examine the risks of coronary artery disease (CAD) and diabetes. Participants were enrolled from January 1, 2006, to December 31, 2010.

The complex associations of socioeconomic status (SES) and lifestyle with dementia are unclear. Lifestyles explained &#8804;7.8% of socioeconomic disparities in dementia. Unhealthy lifestyle categories were associated with a higher risk of dementia.

Air pollution and genetic susceptibility increase the risk of all-cause mortality and cardiovascular outcomes in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) AF patients aged between 40-69 years old registered in the United Kingdom Biobank from 2006 to 2010 were included.

Systemic immune-inflammation index (SII), neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), and platelet-to.lymphocytes ratio (PLR) are novel inflammatory biomarkers used to determine various disease prognoses. We examined the effects of systemic inflammatory markers on all-cause mortality using random survival forest (RSF) and Cox proportional hazards models. Thresholds established by the RSF model could potentially refine prognostic decision-making.

Little is known about the underlying relationship between mosaic loss of chromosome Y (mLOY) and the risk of age-related lung diseases. Results from two cohorts showed that expanded mLOY was associated with increased risks of all lung diseases and lung cancer. There was evidence of positive interactions between mLOY and smoking behavior.

A total of 77,315 participants from the UK Biobank were included in this study. High MRS significantly increased the risk of stroke. MRS provided modest improvement to the stroke risk prediction model. The lifestyle-related metabolic signature could reduce 20% stroke risk.

It remains unclear whether the associations between dietary patterns and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) vary by body mass index (BMI) We aimed to explore the association between dietary. patterns and severe NAFLD incidence, and further investigate the interaction of BMI with dietary patterns. We used a prospective cohort study using UK Biobank data.

Air pollution and genetic risk have been found to contribute to both onset and development of psoriasis. However, the extent to which genetic susceptibility modifies the effects of air pollutants on the risk of incident Psoriasis remains unknown. Our study aimed to assess the association between joint exposure to multiple air pollutants and the risk.

Multiparametric MRI markers of liver health corrected T1 (cT1) and proton density fat fraction (PDFF) have shown utility in the management of various chronic liver diseases. We assessed the normal population reference range of both cT1 and PDFF in healthy child and adult volunteers without any known liver disease.

The study was the largest and most rigorous analyses of body composition and cardiac parameters to date. VAT was associated with increased left ventricular mass (LVM) and wall thickness in women but not in men. MFI association with cardiac parameters was similar to VAT but not significant in women.

The Lancet Commission has highlighted 12 modifiable risk factors for dementia. We compared the association between risk factors and dementia by frailty. Except for smoking, depression, and excessive alcohol use, the other 10 risk factors had a stronger association with dementia among frailer individuals.

The physical and mental health of intersex individuals is woefully understudied. A recent survey found high rates of self-reported cognitive issues. There were no differences in intelligence between intersex and non-intersex people.

Study included 349 085 white British individuals from the UK Biobank study. Genetic risk of high BP was estimated using a weighted polygenic risk score. Muscle strength was assessed using a hand dynamometer and expressed relative to fat-free mass.

Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is associated with more than a 10-fold increase in liver-related death. We established a MASH prediction score based on 44 clinical parameters and 250 serum metabolites. The score identified patients with MASH with AUROCs of 0.87 (95% CI 0.83-0.91) in the Chinese and Finnish cohorts.

The human sex ratio (fraction of males) at birth is close to 0.5 at the population level. Past human studies yielded conflicting results regarding the existence of sex ratio-influencing mutations. Here we show that because a person's offspring sex ratio has an enormous measurement error, a gigantic sample is required to detect OSR-influence genetic variants.

The polyconnectomic score (PCS) measures the extent to which an individual's functional connectivity mirrors the whole-brain circuitry characteristics of a trait. PCS was consistently higher in out-of-sample patients across six of the eight neuropsychiatric and across all three investigated neurodegenerative disorders. Individuals with elevated PCS levels exhibited higher neuroticism (p FDR   -5 ), lower cognitive performance and lower general wellbeing.

Study aimed to investigate impact of tea and coffee consumption on transitions from diabetes-free status to incident type 2 diabetes (T2D), and subsequently to T2D-related complications and death. Included 438,970 participants in the UK Biobank who were free of diabetes and diabetes complications at baseline.

Biliary tract cancer (BTC) is potentially influenced by metabolic dysregulation. Previous metabolomic evaluations are limited. We prospectively investigated associations of blood metabolites and BTC risk in the UK biobank cohort study.

Study examined the association of consumption of coffee, including different types (instant and ground) and with different additives, with new-onset hypertension. A total of 98 765 participants free of hypertension enrolled in the UK Biobank between 2006 and 2010 were included. Regardless of coffee type and whether adding milk to coffee, there was a U-shaped association.

Study aims to investigate the connections between proteomics and genetics in relation to acne across extensive population cohorts. Employed a longitudinal cohort of 54,306 participants from the UK Biobank Pharmacological Proteomics Project (UKB-PPP) Identified 19 proteins significantly associated with the risk of acne.

Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) modulates macronutrient and alcohol preferences, but evidence of such regulation in humans remains scarce. We aimed to map the relationships between plasma FGF21 levels, F GF21 genetic variation and habitual macronsutrient intake in a large human population.

Individuals with genetic polymorphisms in UGT1A1 exhibit bilirubin levels that belie their risk of liver disease. It is not known if this phenomenon extends to other common liver blood tests (LBTs)

Alcohol consumption has complex effects on diabetes and metabolic disease. Genetic factors may play a role and warrant exploration. The aim was to elucidate genetic variants modulating the impact of alcohol consumption on insulin sensitivity and pancreatic beta cell function.

Metabolic remodeling has recently been found to play an important role in the pathological process of atrial fibrillation (AF) The purpose of this study was to evaluate the associations of circulating KB levels with incident AF risk in the general population.

Study used data from the UK Biobank to investigate the association between pre-diagnostic peripheral immunoinflammatory cells and the risk of epilepsy. Monocyte count, NLR, PLR, and SII increased the risk, whereas lymphocyte count and LMR decreased it.

Measurements below the limit of quantification (BLQ) are often tagged in quality control fields, but these flags are currently underutilized in human genetics studies. We hypothesize that genetic drivers, along with environmental and technical factors, contribute to the presence of BLQ flags. Applying our hMG approach to n = 227,469 UK Biobank individuals with metabolomic profiles, we reveal more than 5% heritability.

Long-term fine particulate matter (PM 2.5 ) exposure has been linked to incident heart failure (HF) We aimed to investigate the associations of PM2.5 constituents with incident HF, and further evaluate the modification effects of genetic susceptibility. Among 411 807 individuals in the UK Biobank, 7554 participants developed HF during a median follow-up of 12.05 years. EC (43%) played the most important role, followed by NH 4   +  and SO 4   2- .

The relationship between socioeconomic status (SES) and stroke remains controversial. This study aimed to assess the causal relationship of SES with stroke and its subtypes. The study included 372,437 participants from the UK Biobank.

PM 2.5 -mortality associations in the UK Biobank cohort using detailed information on confounders and exposure. An increase of 10 &#956;g/m&#179; in PM2.5 was associated with hazard ratios of 1.27 for all-cause, 1.24 for nonaccidental, 2.07 for respiratory, and 1.66 for lung cancer mortality.

The diagnosis of myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is based on a constellation of symptoms which center around fatigue. However, fatigue is commonly reported in the general population by people without CFS. Does the biology underlying fatigue in patients with CFS also drive fatigue experienced by individuals without C FS?

The American Heart Association's Life's Essential 8 (LE8) constitutes a research and public health construct capturing key determinants of cardiovascular health. We tested the hypothesis that worse LE8 profiles are associated with higher composite risk of the most important clinical endpoints related to poor brain health.

Central obesity (waist/height ratio 0.5 or greater) was associated with a 48% increased risk of POP regardless of BMI. Overweight without central obesity (BMI 25-29.9 and waist/ height ratio less than 0. 5) was linked to a 23% higher risk.

Integrating multimodal data, such as medical imaging, electronic health records (EHRs), and genomic data, is critical for comprehensive healthcare diagnostics. However, these data sources' high dimensionality present challenges in developing robust and accurate diagnostic models. This paper proposes a hybrid deep learning architecture that combines Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), Recurrent neural Networks (RNNs) and Transformer models.

Study aimed to investigate the associations between HLA alleles and sleep behaviours. Data were sourced from the UK Biobank. Logistic regression analyses were performed to explore the associations. HLA molecules play a crucial role in the immune response.

Fine mapping aims to pinpoint the potentially causal variants from a large number of correlated SNPs possibly with group structure in GWAS-enriched genomic regions. Existing multivariate variable selection methods for fine mapping select variables for all responses without considering possible heterogeneity across different responses.

Nicotine addiction profoundly impacts brain functions through interactions with neural pathways. Despite its significance, the impact of tobacco smoking on the whole-brain functional connectome remains largely unexplored. We conducted a whole- brain analysis on 24,539 adults aged 40 and above from the UK Biobank cohort.

Vigorous intermittent lifestyle physical activity (VILPA) refers to brief bouts of intense physical activity embedded into daily life. We examined sex differences in the dose-response association of VILPA with major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and its subtypes.

When combining imputed and sequenced data in a single gene-based association analysis, the problem of reconstructing genetic correlation matrices arises. We propose an efficient method based on maximising the determinant of the matrix. This method has a number of useful properties and has an analytical solution for our task.

1,854 solid tumor patients were identified, of whom 453 (24.4%) experienced critical care admission. Unadjusted rates of metastatic disease and death were higher for the critical care cohort with lower progression-free survival. At five years, 25% of critical care survivors and 14% of the hospitalized survivors had developed metastatic Disease.

Cannabis use during adolescence and young adulthood has been associated with brain harm. Despite a rapid increase in cannabis use among older adults in the past decade, the impact on brain health in this population remains understudied.

Hospital admission to critical care is associated with subsequent disease progression in patients with non-metastatic solid tumors. Unadjusted rates of metastatic disease and death were higher for the critical care cohort with lower progression-free survival.

Previous studies have reported inconsistent results with positive, negative, and J-shaped associations between alcohol consumption and the hazard of aortic aneurysm and dissection (AAD) This study aimed to examine the connections between weekly alcohol consumption. and the subsequent risk of AAD.

Previous studies suggested that smoking behavior was associated with an elevated risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD) Yet whether this association is causal remains uncertain. We used data for half million participants aged 40 to 69 years from the UK Biobank cohort.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified over 150 risk loci linked to colorectal cancer. However, the specific causal gene and the functional regulatory mechanisms in this region remain unresolved. We employed an RNA interference-based functional approach to identify genes critical for CRC cell proliferation at the GWAS locus 17p13.3.

Hearing loss affects &#8764;430 million people globally. Fish consumption and long-chain n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) intake were inversely associated with risk of hearing loss. Study includes 175,177 UK Biobank participants (40-69y, 54 % women) with data on plasma n- 3 PUFA and hearing status.

Metabolites associated with type 2 diabetes (T2D), coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke were measured. Most lipoprotein metabolites were associated with risks of T2D and CHD but not with the risk of stroke. Phospholipids within intermediate-density lipop Protein or large low-density Lipoprotein particles showed positive associations with CHD and inverse associations with T2d.

SNP heritability is an important parameter in understanding the genetic architecture underlying various diseases and traits. Methods that aim to estimate SNP heritability from individual genotype and phenotype data are limited by their ability to scale to Biobank-scale data sets. These limitations have motivated the development of methods that only require summary statistics.

Ventricular repolarization time (ECG QT and JT intervals) is associated with malignant arrhythmia. Genome-wide association studies have identified 230 independent loci. 50% of their heritability remains unexplained. We hypothesized calcium interactions could explain a proportion of the missing heritability.

We link the circulating proteome to human heart failure (HF) propensity. We observe a broad array of genes encoding proteins linked to HF phenotypes and outcomes. Many identified targets do not have wide precedent in large-scale genomic discovery or human studies.

Vitamin B3 (VB3) induces antitumor immunity against liver cancer through biased GPR109A axis in myeloid cell. Nutritional epidemiology studies suggest that higher VB3 intake reduces liver cancer risk.

The recent development of artificial intelligence (AI) technology has revolutionized many fields. While DNN plays a central role in modern AI technology, it has rarely been used in genetic data analysis due to analytical and computational challenges. We developed a C++ package, AIGen, based on two newly developed neural networks.

 Transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS) integrate GWAS and expression reference panels to identify associations at gene level with tissue specificity. We applied our method to three different complex traits: systolic and diastolic blood pressure, as well as a brain aging biomarker white matter brain age gap in UK Biobank. We identified critical biologically relevant pathways and genes associated with these traits.

The hippocampus atrophies with age and is implicated in neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD) We examined the interplay between age and apolipoprotein E ( APOE ) genotype on total hippocampal volume. No association between APOE and total hippocampus volume was detected before age 60.

Many studies either neglect genetic confounding altogether or rely on adjusting for polygenic scores (PGS) in regression analysis. We unveil that the commonly employed PGS approach is inadequate for removing genetic confounding due to measurement error and model misspecification. To tackle this challenge, we introduce PENGUIN, a principled framework forpolygenic genetic confounding control.

Aging is a complex process manifesting at molecular, cellular, organ, and organismal levels. By applying elastic net regularization to plasma proteome data of over 50,000 human subjects in the UK Biobank, we report interpretable aging models.

Short-chain fatty acid acetate has gained attention for its contrasting roles. Evidence suggests it may offer cardiovascular protection but also promote cancer. However, these influences have been scarcely assessed in epidemiological research. We investigated relationship between acetate and ischemic heart disease, diabetes, and cancers related to sex hormones.

Lower lung function is associated with lower cognitive function and an increased risk of dementia. This has not been adequately explained and may partly reflect shared developmental pathways. In UK Biobank participants of European ancestry, we tested the association between lung function measures and cognitive traits. The strongest association was between forced vital capacity and vascular dementia.

Statins are routinely prescribed to prevent cardiovascular diseases, but their effects on brain alterations remain largely unknown. Very few studies have examined the differences in brain volumes between statin users and non-users. This study showed that statin use is associated with higher white matter hyperintensity volumes and lower total and peripheral cortical grey matter volumes.

The risk of cardiovascular disease increases in patients with acute pancreatitis (AP) It remains unknown whether this increase varies between sexes. We compared sex difference in MACCE incidence using incidence rate per 1000 person-years.

A total of 195,250 participants in the UK Biobank cohort were included in this study from 2006-2010. Polygenic risk scores (PRSs) were calculated for hypertension using single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) Concentrations of plasma FAs, including polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFAs) were tested by nuclear magnetic resonance. Increased plasma MUFAs or SFAs and decreased plasma PUFAs were associated with hypertension risk.

UK Biobank is a large-scale research and biomedical data collection resource that added several COVID-19 related data fields. This study aimed to analyze this data to understand how it was collected and how it can be used.

Apolipoprotein E (APOE) &#949;4 allele is the strongest genetic risk factor for late onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) This case-cohort study used targeted plasma biomarkers and large-scale proteomics to examine the biological mechanisms that allow some APOE&#949%;4 carriers to maintain normal cognitive functioning in older adulthood.

We examined the impact of exposure to sugar restrictions within 1000 days after conception on type 2 diabetes and hypertension. Rationing restricted sugar intake to levels within current dietary guidelines, and consumption nearly doubled immediately after rationing ended.

Modifying dietary behaviors into healthier habits may attenuate the risk of colorectal cancer (CRC) risk. Women were more likely to follow dietary recommendations than men. Increasing fruit and vegetable consumption was inversely associated with CRC risk among men.

Data from 45,821 adults in the UK Biobank was used to estimate biological ages for 12 major organs. All age gaps increase the risk of all-cause mortality by 6-60%. The risk of death varied from 5.54 to 29.18 times depending on the number of aging organs.

WHO convened an effort to develop, evaluate, and illustrate revised risk models. Models included information on age, smoking status, systolic blood pressure, history of diabetes, and total cholesterol. For a given risk factor profile, we found substantial variation across global regions.

Mood disorders (including major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder) affect 10% to 20% of the population. Multiple approaches have shown considerable sharing of risk factors across mood disorders. We meta-analyzed data from the latest Psychiatric Genomics Consortium genome-wide association studies.

Four thousand five hundred and ninety participants of the UK Biobank (54% female, mean age 61.1 +/- 7.2 years) underwent cardiac magnetic resonance. Visceral obesity was associated with a smaller LV EDV and subclinical lower LV systolic function in men.

Genetic variants can be used to prioritize risk factors as potential therapeutic targets via Mendelian randomization (MR) An agnostic statistical framework using Bayesian model averaging (MR-BMA) can disentangle the causal role of correlated risk factors with shared genetic predictors. The top combination of risk factors ranked by the model score contains apolipoprotein B (ApoB) only.

The incremental value of polygenic risk scores in addition to well-established risk prediction models for coronary artery disease (CAD) is uncertain. To examine whether a polygenicrisk score for CAD improves risk prediction beyond pooled cohort equations, a study of UK Biobank participants was conducted from 2006 to 2010.

Refractive errors, in particular myopia, are a leading cause of morbidity and disability worldwide. We conducted a meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies that involved 542,934 European participants. We identified 336 novel genetic loci associated with refractive error.

Study looked at genetic instruments associated with normal range thyrotropin (TSH) and free thyroxine levels or Hashimoto's thyroiditis and Graves' disease. A 1 standard deviation increase in TSH was associated with a 5% decrease in the risk of stroke. MR analyses did not show a causal association between normal range thyroid function and CAD.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is highly prevalent and causes serious health complications in individuals with and without type 2 diabetes (T2D) Early diagnosis of NAFLD is important, as this can help prevent irreversible damage to the liver and, ultimately, hepatocellular carcinomas. We sought to expand etiological understanding and develop a diagnostic tool using machine learning.

Surgical menopause (e.g. endometriosis and fibroids) was associated with over 20% higher risk of CVD (HR 1.22, 95% CI 1.16-1.28) After the stratified analysis, a graded relationship for incident CVD was observed with lower age at menopaser. The findings lend some support to the position that elective bilateral oophorectomy at hysterectomy for benign diseases should be discouraged. In clinical practice, women who experienced natural menopera or had surgical menophere at an earlier age need close monitoring and engagement for preventive health measures.

Lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2) activity has been shown to predict calcific aortic valve stenosis (CAVS) outcomes. Our objective was to test the association between plasma Lp- PLA2 activity and genetically elevated CAVS in humans.

There is a lack of epidemiological data on the associations between psychiatric disorders and COVID-19 testing rates and testing outcomes. Individuals with psychiatric disorders were overrepresented among the 1474 UK Biobank participants with test data.

Birth weight influences not only brain development, but also mental health outcomes, including depression. As birth weight is highly heritable, the polygenic risk scores of birth weight were calculated from the UK Biobank cohort. Positive associations were observed between birth weight and brain volumes.

A common genetic variant near MBOAT7 (rs641738C>T) has been previously associated with hepatic fat and advanced histology in NAFLD. We aimed to establish whether this variant is a risk factor across the spectrum of NAFLd and to characterise its role in the regulation of related metabolic phenotypes. Data from 1,066,175 participants (9,688 with liver biopsies) across 42 studies were included in the meta-analysis.

Study looked at sleep duration, insomnia, and obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in a cohort of patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) on glucose-lowering medications. Long sleep duration and a high risk for OSA were independently associated with higher HbA1c values.

Phenome-wide association studies (PheWASs) are known to be a powerful tool in discovery and replication of genetic association studies. The SAIGE method has been proposed to control for case-control imbalance and sample relatedness in a tractable manner. We present a new high-performance statistical R package (SAIGEgds) for large-scale PheWas using generalized linear mixed models.

Chronic liver disease (CLD) is frequently diagnosed at a late stage when prognosis is poor. We aimed to determine the patient factors associated with a late CLD diagnosis and its impact on survival.

Untreated hyperthyroidism is associated with accelerated bone turnover, low bone mineral density (BMD) and increased susceptibility to fragility fractures. By using Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis, we aimed to assess the causal association of hyperthy thyroid states with BMD and fractures using the UK Biobank.

Serum testosterone concentrations are affected by factors unrelated to hypothalamo-pituitary-testicular axis pathology. We evaluated the impact of sociodemographic, lifestyle and medical factors, on serum testosterone and sex hormone-binding globulin in men aged 40-69 years. Age and BMI were inversely associated with testosterone and cFT, while SHBG was associated with age and inversely with BMI.

"CKD Patch" is a validated method to calibrate and improve the predicted risk from established equations according to CKD measures. The median (IQI) of the ratio of predicted risk for CVD mortality with CKD Patch vs. original prediction with SCORE was 2.64.

Previous research suggested a differential association of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) metabolites with type 2 diabetes (T2D) We aimed to examine the potential causality of these associations using Mendelian randomisation (MR) analysis. We identified genetic variants for MR analysis to investigate the causal association.

Cannabis use disorder has a strong genetic component and is associated with negative outcomes. The aim of the study was to identify novel genetic variants associated with cannabis use disorder. We identified two genome-wide significant loci: a novel chromosome 7 locus and a previously identified chromosome 8 locus. Cannabis use disorder and cannabis use were genetically correlated (r g  0.50, p=1.50 × 10 -21 ), but they showed significantly different genetic correlations with 12 of the 22 traits.

Interleukin 6 (IL-6) is a key player, in the pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes (T2D) However, it is unknown whether IL-6 mediated inflammation is implicated in T2D. We performed a meta-analysis of 15 prospective studies to investigate associations. We also estimated the association of a loss-of-function missense variant (Asp358Ala) in the IL6 receptor gene (IL6R)

Dementia is associated with a high burden of dependency and disability. Physical frailty is a multisystem dysregulation that has been identified as a risk factor for dementia. The aim of this study was to examine the association of frailty and its individual components with all-cause dementia incidence in a cohort of UK adults.

High plasma vitamin C levels are associated with lower type 2 diabetes risk, but whether this association is causal is uncertain. To investigate this, we studied the association of genetically predicted vitamin C with type 2 Diabetes. We identified 11 genomic regions associated with vitamin C, with the strongest signal at SLC23A1 and 10 novel genetic loci. There was no association between genetically predicted plasma Vitamin C and type 2abetes.

Cross-ethnic analyses were conducted using data from 440,581 UK Biobank participants. The prevalence of vitamin D deficiency was highest among participants of Asian ancestry. Participants with higher socioeconomic deprivation were more likely to have 25(OH)D deficiency compared to less deprived participants. Regular consumption of oily fish was associated with reduced odds of Vitamin D deficiency.

Psychiatric disorders are among the largest and fastest-growing categories of the global disease burden. Few studies have examined associations between socioeconomic factors and psychiatric disorders from a genetic perspective. We randomly divided 501,882 participants in the UK Biobank cohort with socioeconomic Townsend deprivation index (TDI) data.

Small studies have correlated hypertension with pneumonia risk; whether this is recapitulated in larger prospective studies is unclear. We estimated the risk for prevalent hypertension with incident respiratory diseases over mean follow-up of 8 years among 377,143 British participants in the UK Biobank.

Few genetic variants have been identified that impact risk of cirrhosis. We aimed to identify new genetic variants that predispose to the disease. We also aimed to test whether such variants, aggregated into a polygenic score, enable genomic risk stratification.

Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) plays a key role in the pathogenesis of metabolic syndrome, which is in turn associated with asthma. Whether IGF-1 contributes to asthma causation or asthma severity is largely unknown. In a large study of British adults, higher serum IGF- 1 levels were associated with lower odds of asthma and current wheezing.

Kidney function declines faster in men. Testosterone levels may mediate the sex disparity. Levels of sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), which modulates sex hormones, might also be relevant. The sex-specific role of SHBG is unclear.

Chronic pain is often experienced alongside other long-term conditions (LTCs) Yet our understanding of this, particularly in relation to multimorbidity (&#8805;2 LTCs), is poor. We aimed to examine associations between the presence/extent of chronic pain with type/number of L TCs experienced.

Study aimed to determine whether unique brain networks are associated with the COVID-19 infection risk. Functional magnetic resonance imaging scans in a cohort of general population were used to compute whole-brain functional connectomes.

Upper gastrointestinal cancers (oesophageal/stomach) have high mortality rates and are often diagnosed after the disease has progressed. Study aims to determine if there is an association between a broad range of long-term conditions (LTCs) and incidence of UGI cancers.

UK Biobank data on individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia ( n  = 1544) were used to examine the prevalence of major cardiovascular events, specifically myocardial infarction, stroke, heart failure and cardiovascular death. Prevalence was significantly higher among participants with daytime sleepiness, independent of snoring, and muscular weakness.

UK Biobank included 392,287 middle-aged and older participants. 7,262 incident cases of T2D were identified during a median 10.1 years of follow-up. Participants who reported regular fish oil use at baseline had a 9% (95% CI 4-14%) lower risk.

Long-term heavy coffee consumption may adversely affect individuals' cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. As hyperlipidemia is a well-established contributor to CVD risk, we investigated the association between habitual coffee intake and plasma lipid profile.

The apolipoprotein E4 ( APOE4 ) gene may be associated with cancer-related cognitive decline. We studied a cohort of patients from the UK Biobank who had breast cancer; some also had AD. There was no significant difference in survival among genotypes.

Genetic predisposition to type 2 diabetes (T2D), hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, and pancreatic &#946;-cell dysfunction on risk of stroke subtypes and related cerebrovascular phenotypes. We examined associations with ischemic stroke (60,341 cases, 454,450 controls), intracerebral hemorrhage (1,545 cases, 1,481 controls), and related phenotypes (carotid atherosclerosis, imaging markers of cerebral white matter integrity, and brain atrophy)

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a genetically complex neurodegenerative disease with ~20 genes known to contain mutations that cause PD or atypical parkinsonism. We present here the Parkinson's Disease Sequencing Browser: a Shiny-based web application that presents comprehensive summary-level frequency data.

Fatty liver disease (FLD) is expected to be the leading cause of end-stage liver disease within the next decade. Both environmental and genetic factors contribute to the susceptibility of FLD. Several genetic variants contributing to FLD have been identified in exome-wide association studies.

The Australian Autism Biobank (AAB) is an initiative of the Cooperative Research Centre for Living with Autism (Autism CRC) to establish an Australian resource of biospecimens, phenotypes and genomic data for research on autism. The genetic data were used to confirm familial relationships and assign ancestry, which was majority European. We generated polygenic scores (PGS) for ASD, IQ, chronotype and height.

LiverPRO is a software tool for detection of clinically significant liver fibrosis in primary care. In the development cohort, LiverPRO diagnosed clinically significant fibrosis with good accuracy (transient elastography &#8805;8 kPa area under the receiver operating characteristic curve [AUC] 0.86 [95% CI 0.83-0.90]

High soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR) levels are associated with adverse outcomes in chronic heart failure (HF) The authors assessed the association between proteomics-based suPAR levels and incident HF risk in the general population.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) comprises one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality both in the European population and globally. All established clinical risk stratification scores and models require blood lipids and physical measurements. The model developed and validated relies solely on ten questionnaire variables, overcoming the limitations of existing models that depend on physical measurements or biomarkers.

Little is known about the associations between choline metabolites (total choline, phosphatidylcholine, and glycine) and the incidence of heart failure (HF) This study followed 245,072 participants from the UK Biobank from baseline (2006-2010) until March 30, 2023. During a median follow-up of 14.1 years, 5,468 incident HF cases were documented.

There are limited data on impact of feedback of incidental findings (IFs) from research imaging. We evaluated the impact of UK Biobank's protocol for handling potentially serious IFs in a multi-modal imaging study of 100,000 participants. Compared to systematic radiologist review, radiographer flagging resulted in substantially fewer participants with potentiallyserious IFs.

The carbohydrate-insulin model of obesity is that insulin secretion drives weight gain. However, fasting hyperinsulinemia can also be driven by obesity-induced insulin resistance. We used genetic variation to isolate and estimate the potentially causal effect of insulin secretion on body weight.

Despite evidence of high heritability, monogenic disorders are identified in a minor fraction of individuals with early-onset coronary artery disease (EOCAD) We calculated in 111 418 British participants from the UK Biobank cohort a genetic risk score (GRS) based on the presence of 182 independent variants. Participants with a diagnosis of EOCAD who underwent a revascularization procedure (n=96) had a significantly higher GRS182.

Vascular aging results in stiffer arteries and may have a role in the development of cardiovascular disease (CVD) Arterial stiffness index (ASI) and pulse pressure (PP) are 2 independent vascular aging indices. We investigated whether ASI or PP predict new-onset CVD and mortality in a large community-based population.

With an estimated one billion hypertension cases worldwide, the role of the built environment in its prevention and control is still uncertain. The present study aims to examine the associations between neighbourhood walkability and hypertension in a large and diverse population-based cohort.

Elevated SUA level is convincing to cause gout and inflammatory polyarthropathies. It might act as a marker for the wider range of diseases with which it associates. Our findings support further investigation on the clinical relevance of SUA levels with cardiovascular, metabolic, autoimmune and respiratory diseases.

The CCL3L1-CCR5 signaling axis is important in a number of inflammatory responses, including macrophage function and T-cell-dependent immune responses. Small molecule CCR5 antagonists exist, including the approved antiretroviral drug maraviroc, and therapeutic monoclonal antibodies are in development.

Handgrip strength, a measure of muscular fitness, is associated with cardiovascular (CV) events and CV mortality. But its association with cardiac structure and function is unknown. The goal of this study was to determine if handgripstrength is. associated with changes in cardiac structure.

UK Biobank participants were assessed for neuroticism. Suicide risk was modelled using Cox regression stratified by gender. Neuroticism increased the risk of suicide in both men and women.

Low-risk limits recommended for alcohol consumption vary substantially across different national guidelines. We studied individual-participant data from 599 912 current drinkers without previous cardiovascular disease. For all-cause mortality, we recorded a positive and curvilinear association with the level of alcohol consumption.

Residential greenness, a fundamental component of urban design, has been shown to reduce the public health burden of mental disorders. The study investigates the association between residential green exposure and prevalence of major depressive disorders. A protective effect of greenness on depression was consistently observed. The results point to the benefits of well designed green environments on mental health.

Fluid intelligence declines with advancing age, starting in early adulthood. To support healthy aging, the mechanisms underlying these declines need to be better understood. We applied latent growth curve modelling to investigate the neural determinants of longitudinal changes in fluid intelligence across three time points in 185,317 individuals.

Heart rate recovery (HRR) is commonly defined as the decrease of heart rate at 1 minute after cessation of exercise. HRR is an important predictor of all-cause mortality and death associated with coronary artery disease. However, HRR at earlier time intervals after cessation has not been well evaluated and might better reflect PNS reactivation.

A recent genome-wide association study (GWAS) identified 99 loci that contain genetic risk variants shared between asthma, hay fever, and eczema. Many more risk loci shared between these common allergic diseases remain to be discovered, which could point to new therapeutic opportunities.

There are limited data on impact of feedback of incidental findings (IFs) from research imaging. We evaluated the impact of UK Biobank's protocol for handling potentially serious IFs in a multi-modal imaging study of 100,000 participants. Compared to systematic radiologist review, radiographer flagging resulted in substantially fewer participants with potentiallyserious IFs.

Structural integrity of the white matter is a marker of cerebral small vessel disease. This is the major cause of vascular dementia and a quarter of all strokes. The aim was to identify common variants associated with microstructural integrity.

Body mass index, body fat percentage, and waist circumference influence smoking status and intensity. Mendelian randomisation analysis indicated that each standard deviation increment in body mass index (4.6) increased the risk of being a smoker.

Selenium is an essential trace element obtained through diet that plays a critical role in DNA synthesis and protection from oxidative damage. Selenium intake and polymorphisms in selenoproteins have been linked to the risk of certain cancers though data for glioma are sparse.

Study looked at 67 798 men and women from England, Scotland, and Wales in the UK Biobank cohort with available information for years of completed education and refractive error. Genetic variants used as proxies for myopia and years of education were derived from 23andMe and Social Science Genetic Association Consortium (SSGAC)

Cognitive ability is an important predictor of lifelong physical and mental well-being. impairments are associated with many psychiatric disorders. Higher cognitive ability is also associated with greater educational attainment and increased household income. The current study found that variation in brain resting-state functional connectivity was associated with individual differences in cognitive ability.

Heritability estimates have revealed an important contribution of SNP variants for most common traits. But single-trait genome-wide association studies (GWAS) has failed to uncover their impact. In this study, we applied a multitrait GWAS approach to discover additional factor of the missing heritability of human anthropometric variation.

Depression is associated with poor sleep quality. Understanding the neural connectivity that underlies both conditions is likely to lead to better-directed treatments for depression and associated sleep problems.

A cohort of 359,033 adults aged 40-69 years were identified from the UK Biobank. During eight years of follow-up 294 oesophageal cancer and 217 gastric cancer cases were identified. Physical activity and screen-based sedentary behaviour levels were not associated with overall oesphago-gastric cancer risk.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) has substantial heritability and a polygenic architecture. The potential of genomic risk scores to help predict CAD outcomes has not been evaluated comprehensively. This study sought to construct a genomic risk score for CAD.

Limited evidence suggests that exposure to maternal smoking in utero or early life might be associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) Our objective was to examine the independent and combined association of maternal and own smoking with adult lung function and COPD.

 Depression is more common in obese than non-obese individuals, especially in women. Previous studies have used genetic variants associated with BMI to provide evidence that higher body mass index (BMI) causes depression. We tested whether this relationship is driven by the metabolic consequences of BMI nor for differences between men and women.

Combinations of lifestyle factors interact to increase mortality. The effect of socioeconomic deprivation on these extended lifestyle risks remains unclear. We aimed to examine whether deprivation modifies the association between an extended score of lifestyle-related risk factors and health outcomes.

Few genetic studies that focus on moderate-to-severe asthma exist. We identified 24 genome-wide significant signals of association with moderate- to- severe asthma. Three novel signals were identified, including several signals in innate or adaptive immune-response genes. The MUC5AC signal was not associated with asthma when analyses included mild asthma. We also report for the first time genetic variants associated with the risk of developing moderate to severe asthma that regulate mucin production.

The p.Gln368Ter (rs74315329) risk allele in the myocilin gene (MYOC) was initially reported to have high penetrance in glaucoma registry-based studies. We investigated this disparity using data from Australia and the United Kingdom. In the UKBB, the minor allele frequency of the MYOC p. Gln 368Ter variant was 1 in 786 individuals (0.13%). In the Australian registry studies, the odds of the variant were 12.16 (95% CI, 6.34-24.97) in patients with advanced glaucma.

PCSK9 (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9) inhibitors are safe and reduce risk of cardiovascular diseases. But their long-term safety is unclear. Genetic variants associated with lower activity of a gene can act as proxies to identify potential side effects of drugs.

Schizophrenia is associated with a marked reduction in reproductive success. Yet alleles that are common contribute substantially to the liability of the disorder. Authors sought to test this hypothesis, isolating the effects of risk alleles on fecundity from the effects that are contingent on expressing schizophrenia.

Cytokines and growth factors have been implicated in the initiation and propagation of vascular disease. Our objective was to explore whether genetically determined circulating levels of these factors are associated with stroke and its etiologic subtypes. Genetic instruments were obtained from a genome-wide association study of 8293 healthy adults.

Studies have shown strong positive associations between serum urate (SU) levels and chronic kidney disease (CKD) risk. We evaluate whether genetic data are consistent with a causal impact of SU level on the risk of CKD and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR)

Iron is essential for life but contributes to oxidative damage. In Northern-European ancestry populations, HFE gene C282Y mutations are relatively common. Iron excess can be prevented or treated but diagnosis is often delayed or missed. Data on sarcopenia, pain, and frailty are scarce.

HFE p.C282Y genetic variant responsible for most hereditary haemochromatosis type 1. Study compared prevalent and incident morbidity and mortality between those with the variant and those with no.

We identified a locus at genome-wide significance in an intron of PLEKHG1 (rs275350, &#946; [SE] = 0.071 [0.013];  p  = 1.6 × 10 -8 ), a Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor that is involved in reorientation of cells. The same single nucleotide polymorphism was associated with all ischemic stroke.

Diverticular disease is a common complex disorder characterised by mucosal outpouchings of the colonic wall that manifests through complications such as diverticulitis, perforation and bleeding. We report the to date largest genome-wide association study (GWAS) to identify genetic risk factors for diverticular disease.

Research demonstrates a negative relationship between alcohol use and affect. But the value of deprecation is unknown and thus cannot be included in estimates of the cost of alcohol to society. This paper aims to examine this relationship and develop econometric techniques to value the loss in affect attributable to alcohol consumption.

We used Mendelian randomization to assess the role of thyroid dysfunction for cardiovascular disease (CVD) Single-nucleotide polymorphisms associated with thyroid function were identified from a genome-wide association meta-analysis. Genetically predicted thyroid-stimulating hormone levels and hyperthyroidism were significantly associated with atrial fibrillation but no other CVDs.

 MAGO is a magnitude-based reconstruction that embodies multipeak liver fat spectral modeling and multipoint optimization. It is compatible with asymmetric echo acquisitions. MAGO was shown to be more robust to artefacts compared to LMS IDEAL.

Study was designed to test the hypothesis that refractive errors such as myopia and hyperopia cause an increased risk of age-related macular degeneration. The risk AMD was caused by a 1-diopter (D) change in refractive error.

Major depression (MD), alcohol dependence (AD), and alcohol consumption (AC) have established clinical associations. We leveraged genome-wide data from the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium (PGC) and UK Biobank to test for the presence of shared genetic mechanisms. Positive genetic correlation was observed between MD and AD.

Lower-complexity cardiac malformations constitute the majority of adult congenital heart disease (ACHD) Long-term risks of adverse cardiovascular events and relationship with conventional risk factors in this population are poorly understood. We aimed to quantify the risk of adverse. cardiovascular events associated with lower- complexity ACHD that is unmeasured by conventional. risk factors.

Schizophrenia is a neurodevelopmental disorder with many genetic variants of individually small effect contributing to phenotypic variation. Lower cortical thickness (CT), surface area, and cortical volume have been demonstrated in people with schizophrenia. A range of obstetric complications (e.g., lower birth weight) are consistently associated with an increased risk for schizophrenia. We investigated whether a high polygenic risk score for schizophrenia (PGRS-SCZ) is associated with CT, surface area and corticalVolume.

Study uses data from 77 743 UK Biobank participants. Found significant difference in experienced temperature of ~1.8&#176;C between the periods of coldest and hottest external temperature. People of Chinese ethnic background experienced 0.65&# 176;C lower temperatures than other groups.

 Syncope is a common condition associated with frequent hospitalization or visits to the emergency department. Family aggregation and twin studies have shown that syncope has a heritable component. We investigated whether common genetic variants predispose to syncope and collapse. We report on a genome-wide significant locus located on chromosome 2q32.1.

There is mounting evidence that our environment and lifestyle has an impact on epigenetic regulatory mechanisms, such as DNA methylation. It has been suggested that these molecular processes may mediate the effect of risk factors on disease susceptibility. Using genetic variants as surrogate variables, we have used two-sample Mendelian randomization (2SMR) to investigate the potential implications of putative changes to DNA methylated levels.

There may be differences in hematological parameters between meat-eaters and vegetarians. Blood count was carried out in all UK Biobank participants at recruitment. People with low or no red meat intake generally had lower hemoglobin concentrations.

Novel, effective, and safe drugs are warranted for treatment of ischemic stroke. Circulating protein biomarkers with causal genetic evidence represent promising drug targets. No systematic screen of the proteome has been performed.

Study aimed to explore potential side effects and repurposing potential of antihypertensive drugs. Mendelian randomization estimates for drug effects on coronary heart disease and stroke risk were compared with randomized, controlled trial results. Suitable genetic proxies for angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium channel blockers were identified.

Mendelian randomisation allows for the testing of causal effects in situations where clinical trials are challenging to do. We used genome-wide data available from the UK Biobank to construct a genetic risk score of 76 variants related to BMI. After Bonferroni correction, PheWAS identified that BMI geneticrisk score was associated with hospital-diagnosed obesity and 58 other outcomes.

Genetic variants at the LPA locus are associated with both calcific aortic valve stenosis (CAVS) and coronary artery disease (CAD) Whether these variants are linked with CAVS in patients with CAD vs those without CAD is unknown. This study included patients undergoing cardiac surgery from the Genome-Wide Association Study on Calcific Aortic Valve Stenosis in Quebec. Data were collected from January 1993 to September 2018.

A data-driven accelerometer metric, the acceleration above which a person's most active minutes are accumulated, can quantify the prevalence of meeting current physical activity guidelines for global surveillance. Unlike cut-point methods, the metric is population-independent (e.g. age) and potentially comparable across datasets.

